Share this on WhatsApp

The Lagos State Police Command on Thursday paraded a 21-year-old student of UNILAG, Chidinma for alleged murder of the Chief Executive Officer, Super TV, Usifo Ataga, in the Lekki area of the state.
The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, confirmed Chidinma is an undergraduate student of the University of Lagos, adding that she had confessed to committing the crime.
While the owner of the rented apartment where the tragic incident took place had been arrested, Odumosu also said Ataga’s account had been blocked to prevent further withdrawals from it by those taking advantage of his untimely death to deplete the account.
READ ALSO: Update on TV mogul murdered in guest house by girlfriend
Chidinma, a 300-level student of Mass Communication, said she had been in a romantic relationship with Ataga for about four months before the ugly incident.
Chidinma said she and Ataga were “having fun” when an argument broke out and she stabbed him twice.
She said, “We were in the lodge smoking. He was trying to make advances on me. I was tired and he became violent. I let him have his way. Towards afternoon, he ordered roofies. We took it together and ate food. He became high. I was still not happy with the first one (sex) that we had, so, I was staying on my own, smoking and drinking. He, too, was on his own.
 “He came to me and I was like I am not happy with what he did. I was like, ‘You don’t help me, you don’t assist me with anything, and you are just playing with me around’. He was like, ‘Take my ATM and withdraw what you want’.
“He later became violent trying to get to me and I was resisting and defending myself. At some point, he hit my head on the wall and I also retaliated.
“At some point, he was chasing me around the kitchen cabinet. I took a knife and stabbed his neck. I approached the door and he followed me. I stabbed him twice on the neck. I threw the knife to the bed and he was going for it but I also went for it. He dragged the knife with me and it broke and he fell on the floor.”
The undergraduate also disclosed that after stabbing the late CEO, she withdrew N380,000 from his account using his ATM card.
Share this on WhatsApp