Share this on WhatsAppThe Deputy Governor of Delta State, Deacon Kingsley Otuaro, at the weekend appealed to the Niger Delta Avengers to explore alternative options to violence in their agitations for the development of the Niger Delta by the federal government.
Deputy Governor Otuaro, chairman of the Delta State Advocacy Committee Against Vandalism of Oil and Gas Facilities, in Asaba noted that the threats by the Niger Delta Avengers to embark on “Operation Humble” targeted at destroying oil installations and sending Nigeria to recession as they demanded end to Federal Government delay in addressing the development of the Niger Delta region, may have devastating effects on the country.
Otuaro recalling the 2018 uprising by Niger Delta Creek Warriors, emphasized the need to soften down on violent agitation.
The Deputy Governor in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Press and Communication, Bulou Kosin, highlighted: “it is not true that violence was the only language the Federal Government understands as touted in certain quarters. If that were true, all the aspirations of the Niger Delta people would have been achieved through violent approaches in the past.
“Violence against persons and property in the past, has in our experience been more associated with military killings of innocent persons, environmental degradation and stemmed resources for the development of our people and nation. Rather than antagonizing political leaders, militants should leverage on platforms easily provided by many equally patriotic political actors in our democracy for constant dialogue and engagement with Government for progress. Any aggrieved militant group should reach out to me through Delta State Governor’s Office Annex, Warri where I can be reached.”
 
Otuaro admonished the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, on the consequences of  disappointing the people on the agreement to appoint the substantive board of the NDDC on June 30. He counseled the minister that if there is any reason he cannot fulfil his promise on the agreement at a meeting in Oporoza with the Niger Delta Stakeholders on the inauguration of the substantive board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the minister should consult the people to notify them of the delay.
“Godswill Akpabio knows what to do to guarantee confidence of the people and peace, should there be good reasons for further delay beyond June 30 on this NDDC Board inauguration issue.
“He should get back one way or the other to the Governments and critical stakeholders for reassurance that they were or are not deceived.
“We should spare nothing to avert trouble in the now peaceful Niger Delta,” Otuaro said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp