Share this on WhatsApp

Concerned medical freedom advocates in conjunction with Children’s Health Defense (CHD) on Wednesday, June 23, at five vaccination sites around the US protested plans to vaccinate underage children as young as 12 without the consent of their parents.
According to the protesters, if left unchallenged, health authorities will be using America’s children as guinea pigs for the vaccine, some of whom will suffer life-long injuries and even death.
Protesters distributed vital information children and parents should have before they make potentially life-altering healthcare decisions. They also urged children to forgo the COVID vaccine and any other vaccines until they and their parents have been fully informed of the risks and benefits associated with each vaccine.
READ ALSO: Bombshell! How COVID-19 was engineered to be hyper-infectious – Experts
According to the protesters in America, underage children need parental consent to go to a suntan salon, attend a school field trip or be prescribed any medication, yet these long-held safety guidelines are being cast aside for the experimental COVID-19 vaccines which are still undergoing clinical trials, and carry the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s “Emergency Use Authorization” status only.
“Circumventing parental consent is clearly an overreach on the part of federal, state and local health officials, said CHD Chairman Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., who called on “all lawmakers and public health officials to stop the reckless vaccination of children who are not of age to consent.”
“Americans aren’t being fully informed when it comes to warp speed, liability-free COVID vaccines,” Kennedy said. “The Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) is receiving unprecedented numbers of reports of injuries and deaths following COVID vaccinations.”
READ ALSO: COVID-19: Court imposes $1.35m fine on Governor for restricting religious worship
As of June 11, the government-run VAERS database contained 352,386 reports of adverse events, including 5,993 deaths after COVID vaccines since mid-December, 2020.
At the same time the CDC is scheduled to meet to discuss the known cardiac risks and heart inflammation affecting children and young adults following COVID-19 vaccination, the agency is participating in a concerted effort to coerce this same group to get the vaccine anyway.
The push to vaccinate children is inconsistent with the CDC’s data showing children are less likely to develop severe illness or die from COVID, and are more likely to be asymptomatic or show mild systems.
In light of the high rate of reports of injuries following COVID vaccines, and the recent guidance by the WHO advising children under 18 not to get the vaccine, CHD demands that CDC provide the reasoning behind its continued recommendation that children in the U.S. get the vaccine.

Share this on WhatsApp