Share this on WhatsApp
Former Enugu North Senatorial Aspirant, under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Chinedu P. Eya, has reported President Muhammadu Buhari’s to President of the International Criminal Court, Judge Piotr Hofmański in Hague, Netherlands, United States President, Joe Biden and the UK Prime Minister, Boris Johnson over his ethnic cleansing agenda in the South-East.
In a series of letter to the trio, made available to news men on Thursday morning, 3rd of June, 2021, with the caption, “threats of ethnic cleansing by President Muhammadu Buhari against Southeasterners in Nigeria”, the former Enugu Senatorial Aspirant cited ‘marginalization, unfair treatment and accumulated Injustices’ as reasons why Southeasterners feel unsafe in Nigeria.
READ ALSO: BDC operators move to crash exchange rate as Naira hits N499/$1
According to him, “President Buhari’s outburst shows his preparedness to deploy the instrumentalities of the nation, particularly the Nigerian army against a region, crying and yearning for equity, fairness and justice from their oppressor – Northern Nigeria, who go by the slogan, “Born to Rule” and who for, as long as God knows will continue to subjugate and pervert the collective interest of “Ndigbo” as we are known and addressed.
“I am writing the International Criminal Court (ICC), because they have the responsibility to investigate and, where warranted, try individuals charged with the gravest crimes of concern to the international community such as genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and the crime of aggression which is the situation we have found ourselves in the hands of the present federal government, led by Muhammadu Buhari.
READ ALSO: 7-day ultimatum: Presidency frets, sends Akpabio to beg Tompolo
“And I am writing UK on two grounds: one, because the conflagration or what was known as amalgamation of the Southern and Northern proletariat which became Nigeria in 1914 was done by your statesman, Lord Lugard (who is author of our present predicament). And secondly, I am writing you this letter because the United Kingdom, and the United States of America cannot afford to keep quiet at this trying time of Southeasterners, especially with the recent unguarded verbiage by Mr. President.
READ ALSO:
“I am writing about the US for two major reasons: one, because of the fact that the United States is a major player in both international politics and the maintenance of world peace and order. And secondly, because of the obvious bilateral relationship between Nigeria and the United States of America, which is the binding cord between both Nations for many years without breaches;” Chief Eyas stated.
Recall that Nigerians had called for the suspension of Buhari’s account for saying ‘individuals or groups who want to destroy his government will be treated in a language they will not understand.
Share this on WhatsApp