Share this on WhatsAppThere are indications of panic in Kano State as Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano on Thursday raised alarm that bandits have taken over forests in Kano State, using the zone as a hideout after violent operations in neighbouring states.
Governor Ganjude at a meeting with the Chief of Army Staff, Major General Farouk Yahaya, at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, on Thursday, requested military intervention to protect Kano State against the bandits who, he said, have taken over forests in the state, using the environment for hideout.
The Kano governor told the new Army boss that bandits are beginning to converge in Falgore forest. Ganduje panicked that the bandits may, thereafter, plan to attack Kano State.
Ganduje disclosed that he was at the Defence Headquarters to condole with the Nigerian Army over the death of the former Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru, and other 10 military officers. He assured the military of his commitment to assisting security agencies in the countries to arrest the insecurity challenges as well as maintain peace in the state.
Governor Ganduje demanded prompt completion of the army training facility at Falgore forest in Kano, saying the completion will boost military presence in the area.
The governor also disclosed that the Kano State government is building schools and hospitals for herdsmen to settle in the state and carry out their trade peacefully.
Governor Ganduje had stated: “My visit here today is to condole with the Nigerian Army over the death of the former Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru and ten other officers.
“It was painful, it was untimely and sorrowful, but we are consoled that they died in active service to the nation.
“I am also here to seek the help of the Nigerian Army to sustain the peace in Kano State; bandits have converted some forests in the state to hideouts.
“We are building houses, schools and hospitals for the herdsmen in some of the forests, but we want the Army to commence activities at the Falgore forest.”
The Chief of Army commended Governor Ganduje for his solidarity visit to the headquarters. He promised to visit the Falgore forest for on-the-spot assessment of the construction of the army training facility in the forest and how work could resume there.
Share this on WhatsApp