Share this on WhatsAppThe family of the late Usifo Ataga, Super TV CEO, has spoken up for the first time since his killer lover was paraded in Lagos by the state police command on Thursday.
In a statement a spokesperson for Ataga’s relatives put out on the weekend, there seems a iota of doubt in their take on the police theory—that Ataga’s girlfriend was solely responsible.
According to the police, Chidinma Ojukwu, a 300-level student of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), stabbed her sugar daddy after both were high on drugs and alcohol and a misunderstanding ensued over sex during a tryst at a Lekki apartment about a week ago.
“We, the Ataga Family, are grateful to the Nigerian Police for pursuing this investigation,” the family spokesperson Isi Ataga said in the statement.
“However, like you, we have many unanswered questions. Some things don’t add up.”
Isi tried to state their own facts.
“A little over a week ago, unknown persons savagely killed our beloved son, Usifo Ataga. With no regard for him, or his family, who love him, they viciously ended his life.”
Earlier, the late CEO’s friends, like the family, had debunked the sugar daddy theory, saying Ataga was a responsible family man, and he might have been assassinated following a mega deal his TV streaming company just sealed.
But the online world has not been making things easy for the Atagas since Chidinma confessed.
The death has been a laughing butt the social media enthusiasts have been using to hit sugar daddies in Nigeria.
This hurts.
“His children will grow up to read unkind, thoughtless words from thousands of people who have joined the lynching party in the press and the blogosphere,” said Isi.
“Our aging parents must now struggle to pick up the pieces amid a cacophony of misinformation propagated by strangers.”
He urged anyone with useful information to come forward and share it with the Police.
“We ask, sincerely, that you let us grieve this terrible loss with some privacy. This past week and a half has been the worst period of our lives.”
Share this on WhatsApp