Share this on WhatsAppGov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State says his government will continue to collaborate with Federal Government establishments to find a lasting solution to insecurity in the state.



Makinde gave the assurance on Monday while hosting the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) federal lawmakers from the state, who paid him a courtesy visit in Ibadan.

The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa, on Monday in Ibadan, said his administration was making progress toward addressing the spate of insecurity ravaging the state.

He said that there was no Federal security agency operating in the state, which his government had not assisted to be more effective.


The governor urged the Federal lawmakers to cooperate with the federal establishments to address the insecurity and move the country forward.

 “We may be in the opposition to the party in power at the Federal level, but we are not out to politicise the issue of insecurity,” Makinde said.


He said all hands must be on deck to secure lives and property in the state, adding that the issue of security should be a collective responsibility.

The governor urged the lawmakers not to be far away from their constituencies and complement his government’s efforts to providing dividends of democracy to their constituents.

He assured them that his administration would continue to provide a favourable environment for the state to thrive.

Makinde said that his government had been doing a lot to attract investments into the state.

Earlier, the lawmakers passed a vote of confidence in the governor, for what they described as “unprecedented achievements of the Makinde’s administration in the last two years”.


They equally commended the efforts of the state government in tackling the wave of insecurity in the state.

Sen. Kola Balogun, representing Oyo South Senatorial District, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, said that Makinde’s administration had moved the state forward in terms of performance ranking.

Balogun declared that the state government had been able to bridge the trust deficit between the people and the government.

Other Federal lawmakers on the courtesy visit were Rep. Abass Agboworin, representing
Ibadan North-East/South-East Federal Constituency; Rep. Adewale Oluyemi, representing Ibarapa East/Ido Federal Constituency and  Rep. Adebo Olajide, representing Ibadan North-West/South-West Federal Constituency.




Share this on WhatsApp