Share this on WhatsAppGovernor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State at the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Warri Golden Jubilee celebration of the call to Bar of the Branch’s three icons, Chief Thompson Joseph Onomigbo Okpoko, SAN; Alaowei Broderick Cherima Bozimo and Dr. Chief Young O. Esombi in Warri, at the weekend, called on the Nigerian  Bar Association (NBA) to always maintain professional standards and join in the crusade against corruption in order to bequeath a nation of achievers as well creator of wealth and  entrepreneurship to the next generation.
Okowa, represented by the Deputy Governor, Deacon Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, emphasised that the continued reliance on courts by those who seek justice has proven beyond reasonable doubt, that the law courts remain the hope of the aggrieved and, therefore, the bastion of democracy.
The governor noted that the topic of the lecture, “Persistent Problems In Litigation In Nigeria” was quite apt and interesting.
He pointed out that the degree of access to courts determines whether a potential litigant could file a lawsuit or not.
Governor Okowa enjoined the NBA to continue to champion the cause of underprivileged and disadvantaged before the courts. According to the governor, “that way, the notion that the courts are the last hope of common man will continue to hold true.”
He prayed and believed that the celebration would beam the searchlight on improving the state and nation’s criminal justice system.
Congratulating the three legal luminaries on reaching the Golden Jubilee milestone, Okowa revealed that gold has been a standard of exemplary purity and excellence among metals since time immemorial and that he was happy to be part of the milestone.
“So, today, I join you to pay homage to these three eminent and respected personalities who have weathered the storm since their call to Bar. We salute them for 50 years of professional success and unparalleled commitment to Community, the state and country,” the governor said.
The immediate past Governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Ewetan Uduaghan, had earlier appealed to the NBA to partner with the government towards developing the state and the nation at large.
The President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Olumide Akpata, SAN, had stated that role models are pivotal to the development of one’s career and all the three icons have proven to be worthy role models to all present.
He noted that the body of laws would be incomplete without their contributions to the growth, relevance, and sustainability of the Warri Branch of the NBA and to the development of young lawyers.
“I count it a great honour to celebrate these three icons of legal practices who were at different instrumental to my growth and development in this Noble profession,” Akpata said.
The lecture was delivered by Hon. Justice Amina Adamu Augie, Justice of the Supreme Court (JSC).
Share this on WhatsApp