Share this on WhatsApp 
 
After weeks of silence, Tope Alabi has opened up on the purported rift between her and another gospel singer, Adeyinka Adesioye a.k.a Alaseyori over the castigation of the singer’s popular ‘Oniduro’ song.
It would be recalled that Tope Alabi sometime ago had castigated the song, saying her own God is more than an advocate. This attracted a series of backlash with many knocking the singer for taking on the rising gospel artiste.
However in a series of messages, Tope Alabi acknowledged that she erred, noting that her mistake was that she externalized a personal message in public.
READ ALSO: Lyrics war: Oniduro crooner, Yinka Alaseyori replies Tope Alabi
“I want to state that Tope Alabi, Adeyinka Adesioye a.k.a Alaseyori and Tolu Adelegan are all members of the same family of God and they belong to the same calling – singing ministry.
“Adeyinka is my daughter in ministry. Her Pastor asked me to pray for her because she took after me, which I did wholeheartedly.
“……I’m being bombarded with calls and visits by Pastors since Monday morning till now. As we speak, another group of Pastors are coming in now. I guess it is because of this same issue.
“…..I’m not a perfect person yet, I’m still a work in progress in the hands of God. I want people to see me as a mere mortal with my own weaknesses, human frailties and as a learner in the limitless knowledge of God.
READ ALSO: Tope Alabi at 50
“My friends, colleagues and leaders in ministry who criticized me either openly or privately simply feel disappointed because of the love we share. We are too knitted in the Body of Christ to allow anything to divide us. Human factor is part of our life.
“…… Sister Tolu Adelegan is a woman I hold in high esteem. Adeyinka, like I said earlier, is my daughter in ministry, they are all valuable sisters and associates that nothing can separate us. This is a mere fog, it will fade away in no time.
“For the comic fellows who are already releasing comedy skits over the matter, I burst into laughter (she laughed again) watching some today.
What creative people we are. Nigerians are awesome minds who will fashion out tension relieving stuff from every situation.
…I appreciate them all. The Bible says in Hebrew 12: 14 that we should pursue peace with everybody and holiness, those are the conditions for us to see God. This is the acceptable path for all of us to follow……”
Share this on WhatsApp