Share this on WhatsApp 
Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa State on Monday tightened the curfew in the state, ordering a review of the time duration for the curfew proclaimed in three Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the state.
The Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the Governor, Humwashi Wonosikou, in a statement on Monday in Yola, explained that the governor issued the directive as a violent group, the Shila Boys, and other miscreants are using tricycles and motorcycles in the three LGAs – Yola North, Yola South, and Girei.
According to the statement, “The curfew which was from 11.00pm to 5.00am during the Ramadan fast has now been reviewed to commence from 10.00pm to 5.00am with immediate effect.
“The review of the restriction of movement is necessitated by the desire of the government to checkmate rising activities of hoodlums terrorizing these areas.”
It was disclosed that approving the review, Governor Fintiri directed the security agencies to ensure strict compliance with the order under the Adamawa State Restriction of Movement of Tricycles/Motorcycles Executive Order No.1 of 2021.
The governor cautioned the residents that anybody found breaching the peace or violating the curfew would face the wrath of the law.
The governor declared: “Security agencies will continue to discharge their duties and residents are urged to cooperate with them to maintain the status of our state as one of the most peaceful.
“I appeal to residents not to indulge in any action that may turn back the clock, but to keep living in harmony and strengthen the unity that we are known for.” It was said that the Shila Boys, a criminal gang in Adamawa, have been terrorising residents in parts of the state.
They were said to have commenced operations in 2017. The boys were said to be between the ages of 12 and 27 years, and they steal phones, bags, money, and other valuables from residents, with young girls and ladies as the targets in most cases.
The Shila Boys were also said to move around with sharp knives, cutlasses, and machetes; and thereafter, upgraded to using tricycles and motorcycles for their operations.
Share this on WhatsApp