Share this on WhatsAppThe Nigeria Police on Saturday reveled that the Force foiled plot by the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), the Shi’ites, to instigate violence in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja.   The FCT Police Command in a statement on Saturday, indicated that the Force  dispersed protesters in an attempt to forestall plots by the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) to incite public disturbance in the FCT.
The FCT Police Command had in the statement by Yusuf Mariam,  declared: “The FCT Police Command on Saturday, successfully restored calm at Apo-Gudu axis after professionally dispersing a protest by some members of the proscribed Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), the Shi’ites, and others targeted at inciting public disturbance and breaching public peace.
“Consequently, the action of the Command was necessitated by the concerns of some agitated residents. However, no arrest was made.
“In view of the above, the Command wishes to state that it is committed to ensuring that FCT residents enjoy a hitch-free Democracy Day Celebration and will not hesitate to bring to book every person or entity that attempts to breach the peace or cause a breakdown of law and order in the Federal Capital Territory.
“The Command implores residents to remain calm and law-abiding while reaffirming its unwavering commitment to the protection of lives and property within the FCT.”
However, it was gathered that June 12 protesters had pre-empt police violence and shifted their protest from Fountain Park to Apo-Gudu. Those considered government hired protesters, recruited for solidarity mass action in support of President Muhammadu Buhari to counter the June 12 protesters demanding the resignation of Buhari, were gathered at the Fountain Park. The pro-Buhari protesters were said to be mobilized to confront the June 12 protesters and create a scene of violence for the police to come in.
The June 12 protesters in proactive action moved to Apo-Gudu junction where they held their mass action before the police who earlier went to the Fountain Park could trail them to the scene when they couldn’t trace them at the Fountian Park.
Contrary to the Police statement, those dispersed at the Apo-Gudu junction may not be IMN members but genuine June 12 protesters, demanding the resignation of President Buhari.
Share this on WhatsApp