Share this on WhatsAppThe militant group, Niger Delta Avengers has made a comeback to the creeks with a vow to cripple Nigeria’s oil flow, and its economy.
The group had issued an ultimatum to the federal government to constitute a board for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC, vowing to take to the creeks if its demand is not attended to.
Stakeholders had warned the Federal Government and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio of the consequences of reneging on their agreement to constitute a substantive board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) at the end of June.
There were feelers that following the expiration of the deadline without any practical steps to constitute the board, the NDA had decided to begin a fresh violent onslaught against the oil facilities in the region.
READ ALSO: Ogun Police Command reacts to #DemonOnLoose# trend
The NDA recalled that it suspended its famous, operation red economy‚ which bled the Nigerian economy into a recession about four years ago not because it was lazy but for the love it had for the people and out of respect for the voice of the elders of the Niger Delta region.
Though NDA made no mention of the NDDC, it hinged its decision on the underdevelopment of the region and the undermining of the collective interests of the people of the region.
The NDA after a meeting of its high command said it had lost confidence in all socio-cultural groups like the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), the elders and “the bunch of so-called ex-agitators frolicking with the government at our detriment”.
It said: “This operation shall be coded‚ Operation Humble aimed at bringing down targeted oil installations in the Niger Delta capable of humbling the economy into permanent recession. This mission is also targeted at political actors, who are collaborating with the Nigerian Government to undermine the interest of the Niger Delta people.
READ ALSO: Separation of power imperative for good governance, says Okowa
“There is no doubt that the Nigerian Government has continued to pay deaf ears to our demands and the rising challenges in the country because the pipelines that crisscross our lands are left untouched, allowing dollars to flow into the federal treasury on a daily basis for mismanagement.
“We shall spare no single oil installation within our range of strategic targets marked for destruction in the coming days and we bet the Nigerian Government will be humbled to return to the drawing board and chart an all-inclusive course by the time we are done with our action plan.
 “The high command of the NDA has promoted and appointed one of our finest operatives, Field Commander Tu-ere aka Queen of the Creeks to the rank of Brigadier General. She is an experienced field agent who before now was the head of the counterintelligence unit of the NDA, using her connections with top government and security officials to deliver on her assignment.”

Share this on WhatsApp