Share this on WhatsAppVice President Yemi Osinbajo SAN, at the photo book exhibition on the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, by Ayo Adeagbo, lauded official photographers
Vice President Osinbajo, drilling into the creative at the event, highlighted the power and efficacy of photography in telling human stories, including those of political actors in the country.
Prof. Osinbajo at the public presentation of a photo book entitled “Gbajabiamila: The Long Road, which is about the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Gbajabiamila, his Personal Photographer, Ayo Adeagbo, recalled a personal past of him as “a collector of rare and interesting photographs.”
The event witnessed a panel discussion on the place of official photographers to top public servants, by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; the Speaker himself, the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndidi Elumelu, and a review by Dr. Sam Omatseye, Chairman of The Nation Editorial Board.
Osinbajo stated that as a subject of photography, the Speaker “is one of the most resilient, most resourceful and most successful Nigerian politicians, having won elections five times in the past 18 years.”
He said Gbajabiamila is “an effective bridge-builder across tribes, political parties, religions, and even generations and he has proven to be an innovative mediator and an honest broker in several local and national disputes and conflicts.”
While commending the photographer, Prof Osinbajo noted that “Ayo has proved to be a creative and faithful documentalist of the political journey of the charismatic and photogenic speaker.”
The Vice President congratulated Ayo Adeagbo, the personal photographer to Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, for the seminal photographic biography of his boss.
“Photography is storytelling and as they say, a photograph is better than a thousand words. “But the storyteller must not only be skillful, but he must also be trustworthy enough to be allowed access to take the most intimate shots, and as photographers would say, to make or create the best shots.
“I had the privilege of a sneak preview of the publication that we are about to present and without divulging any secrets, I really think that Ayo has done a great job.
“But his job was made easier by the fact that his subject is one of the most resilient, most resourceful, and most successful Nigerian politicians, having won elections five times in the past 18 years.
“He is an effective bridge-builder across tribes, political parties, religions, and even generations and he has proven to be an innovative mediator and an honest broker in several local and national disputes and conflicts,” Osinbajo highlighted.
Share this on WhatsApp