Share this on WhatsAppBy Hon.  J.A Abolagba
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Owan – West LGA, prior to the Sept. 19,2020 elections showed so much promise of a united party with focused, disciplined and hardworking/loyal party members.
Such loyalty was exhibited before and during the aforementioned election.  However, that narrative has become sour owing to nothing else but the selfish and thoughtless leadership of Hon. J.A Abolagba, a one-time Local Government Chairman and  former Member House Of Representatives.
This accidental leader/elder, Hon Johnson  Abolagba now sees the Party as an entity he can trade with at will and we, the Younger Generation politicians of our Party stock refuse to be led by such an untrustworthy individual.
He has consciously failed  time and again to protect the interest of the Legacy/Old  PDP members as information reaching us is that appointments that would eventually come to Owan West LGA are over 90 percent New PDP Members yet he struts around claiming “Leader” but lacks real influence to effect any balance in such as his only concern is in his nominee for Special Adviser. A Greek Gift and concession not even guaranteed. He’s a very good example of how not to be leader.
His leadership of the Party has so far been nothing but a ghastly failure as he contributed absolutely NOTHING to the victory of the Party in the LGA given that he lost his polling Unit and Ward in the last gubernatorial election.
Hence we are taken aback that he  prides himself as the LGA  leader of our great party, the PDP and one that delivered his local government.
Such deceptions he has currently used to warm himself to the Governor to crookedly impose himself as leader and dictate what goes on in Owan West PDP, when we know that;
* As a member of the House of Representatives, his only achievement was to have street lights erected  in his village, Ikhuse Oke. Thereby exhibiting to the World his clannish nature.
* As Chairman of the Local government, he did NOTHING.
* As PDP Candidate for House of Representatives in 2019, he openly traded the party’s victory because he was unsure he would win the case over the primaries. What a crooked individual!
* This same man is very much aware that even after winning the local government for the Party in the last gubernatorial election, (being the local government won by them party on the Senatorial District), the Governor did not visit the local government in his thank you tour and yet, failed to call his attention to it.
We are made to understand that he  dictates to our hardworking and promising LGA executives and they, for reasons best known to them, allow him!  How sad!
We want to make it abundantly clear to our dear executives that Hon.  J.A Abolagba has no constitutional power bestowed on him by the Party to Lord over them.
They must note that they are as Party executives, guided by the party constitution and are answerable to the Party members and not one or group of self-appointed leader(s).
It is high time they know that even their own positions in the Party have long been traded by this same lead trader, Hon. J. A Abolagba.
They would do the Party, and themselves, a great good by doing away with this character and be guided by the party constitution.
Let the Party constitution lead us in PDP, Owan West LGA.
Share this on WhatsApp