Best graduating student of the set in a hand shake with the DVC Academics of the University.

        
 

Share this on WhatsApp







The University of Jos has inducted 38 of its graduates from the department of Building into the Graduate Membership Cadre of the Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB)
Speaking at the brief ceremony on Wednesday in Jos, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Sebastian Maimako, urged the inductees to be upright at all times.

Represented by Prof. Tanko Ishaya, the Deputy Vice Chancellor Academics of the university, Maimako also advised them to ensure quality, standard and professionalism.

He charged the inductees to find a lasting solution to the rising spate of building collapse in the country.

“As professionals, you must practice with quality and standard at all times; you must not cut corners.

“Endeavour to bring an end to the growing incidences of building collapse in the country,”he said.

The vice chancellor then urged the inductees to be good ambassadors of the university and ensure sanity in the building profession.

He also warned them against quackery and use of substandard materials during construction.

He assured that the management of the institution would continue to accord the department the necessary support to enable it to turn out quality and professional builders into the Society

Earlier, Dr Dorcas Adeagbo, Head of Building Department of the institution, said that the inductees belonged to the 2018/2019 set.

Adeagbo, who congratulated the inductees for the feat achieved, also urged them to keep to the value the university had instilled in them.

She also explained that the exercise was the third since the inception of the department.

“As you leave this institution, you carry with you the flag of University of Jos, in terms of it’s core values of ‘discipline and dedication’

“As you are now prepared professionally to make your impact with respect to provision of qualitative infrastructure and services in the construction industry, minimising the issues of building collapse across the country should be your primary concern.

“Be confident and deal with every aspect of building practices tactfully and you will surely be successful in your endeavours,” she said.

She thanked the university’s management for the support rendered to it in the past and called for more.

Speaking at the sidelines of the event, Shadrach Joshua, the best graduating student of the set, thanked his lecturers and the university for the opportunity granted him and his colleagues to study.

Joshua, who graduated with a CGPA of 4.5, said he would ensure  the use of quality materials during construction.

He urged his junior colleagues in the department to put in the armour of hard work, dedication and commitment in order to succeed.







Share this on WhatsApp