Share this on WhatsApp

The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested an Uber driver, and two other suspected traffickers with different quantities of cocaine at Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos.
Mr. Femi Babafemi, Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, disclosed the arrests in a statement on Sunday in Abuja.
Babafemi said the Uber driver, Lawal Tunde Rasheed, was arrested at the Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc (SAHCO), export shed of MMIA on Tuesday, June 8.
Rasheed was arrested when he brought a consignment from his client to a freight forwarder for export to Malabo in Equatorial Guinea.
READ ALSO: Abacha’s former CSO, Al Mustapha reveals those behind Nigeria’s woes
According to him, when the package was searched, 150 grammes of cocaine, concealed inside two pieces of air freshener, were discovered.
“A follow up operation on the following day, led to the arrest of one Egbo Emmanuel Maduka, at his residence on Wednesday, June 9.
“Investigations have so far confirmed that Egbo is behind the two seizures of 50grammes of cocaine in hair attachment and another 150 grammes of cocaine concealed in air freshener, heading to Malabo.
“The seizures were made on June 4 and June 8.
READ ALSO: Nigerian American punches white lover to death on discovering truth
“Also on Friday, June 11, a male passenger, Udogwu James Johnson, on Qatar Airlines from GRU in Brazil was arrested at D-arrival hall, MMIA, Lagos with nine wraps of cocaine.
The cocaine, which weighed 300 grammes were hidden in his pants.
In a separate arrest at Iddo Park in Lagos, Ali Mohammed, a 27-year-old final year petroleum engineering student of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi, was arrested with large quantities of cannabis sativa.
Ali Mohammed, the ATBU student was found with 3.032kg of cannabis sativa following a tip off on Thursday, June 10.
“Under interrogation, Ali who hails from Nguru, Yobe but was brought up in Lagos claimed that while on his way to the motor park in Iddo, from Obalende where he lives, he met an acquaintance named Ahmed.
“He said the acquaintance upon learning that he was traveling back to Bauchi via Kano implored him to help deliver a travel bag,” he said.
READ ALSO: Mass defection hits Kwankwasiyya, PDP, others across 27 states
Babafemi said the bag contained the seized 3.032kg of cannabis sativa to be delivered to one Ugo who lived in Sabon gari, Kano.
Ahmed told the suspect that he will send Ugo’s phone number to him through SMS to facilitate the delivery of the consignment when he arrives in Kano.
“The suspect who admitted knowing that the bag contained drugs, however, denied receiving or being promised any form of gratification for agreeing to take the drugs to Kano,’’ he said.
The director quoted the Chairman, NDLEA, retired Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa, as commending the MMIA and Lagos State Commands of the agency for the feats.
He charged officers and men of the two commands not to rest on their oars, urging them to remain vigilant and intensify the ongoing offensive against drug cartels.
Share this on WhatsApp