Share this on WhatsAppIndigenes of Igangan community in Ibarapa council zone of Oyo State are beginning to abandon their ancestral homes, fleeing the community for safety and fear of further attack after the last Saturday onslaught by armed herdsmen.
Community sources were gathered to be complaining that the people have lost confidence in the Nigerian Army and the Nigeria police to protect their territory. The people were said to be overwhelmed with the fear of when next their killers will struck again, and resorted to taking refuge in neighbouring communities.
It was gathered that members of Odua People’s Congress (OPC), have volunteered to protect the community against further attacks and invasion by the killer herdsmen perceived to engage in reprisal killings.
An OPC leader, Rotini Olumo, as well as a leader of the Agbekoya, Olasunkanmi Raji, were said to have condemned the late interventions or ineffective actions of the federal government to contain the violent crime waves in the country, including kidnapping and arson. The situation, they said, has degenerated into loss of confidence on the leadership and the security architecture of the country.
It was gathered that the Ooni of Ife, His Royal Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II, had condemned the invasion of Igangan by Fulani herdsmen, and the killing of the people.
Over 12 persons were said to be killed and houses burnt when the herdsmen invaded Igangan Community in Ibarapa council area of Oyo State last Saturday night. The invasion occurred about five months after the violent clash between Yoruba indigenes and the Fulani community  in Igangan Community.
The Oyo State Police Public Relations Officer, Wale Osifeso, had in a statement indicated that a yet to be acknowledged that a number of armed assailants invaded Igangan town around 11.00pm on Saturday with dangerous weapons in a bid to create unrest in the town.
The PPRO said the Police did not have accurate figure of fatalities then. The Police, however, assured the people that the Force will maintain surveillance over the community and its environs.
It would appear that the loss of confidence in the police may have caused panic in the indigenes of Igangan, compelling them to flee their homes.
Share this on WhatsApp