Share this on WhatsApp





A group of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in the Southwest has urged the party to put her house in order ahead of 2023, as it cannot afford to be in the opposition for another four years after.

The group’s Executive Director Mr. Bukky Adeojo, who is also the Director General of an NGO-

FACE OF WAZIRI-NIGERIA made the statement in Lagos on Thursday 24th of June, stressing the need to cure the malignant virus of division and disharmony bedevilling the party ahead of another general election .

Adeojo counseled that the time is now for PDP all over Nigeria and diaspora to close ranks and do the needful, he harped on the importance of ensuring the party chairmanship position remains in the southern geopolitical zones of the country, especially southwest which had been denied for far too long.

The passionate PDP unity crooner however,proposed that the zoning arrangements for the emergence of presidential candidature should be rested now, adding that what is really urgently required is for the party to churn out a  northern presidential candidate with pedigree and clout to salvage the country from the sorry state, the All Progressives Congress party has led it.

He reiterated that the party need to field a candidate with the capability to rootlessly tackle, insecurity,joblessness and unemployment,poverty and other worrisome conditions that plaques Nigeria and Nigerians.

In his words, ” I’m of the opinion that our great party PDP cannot afford to be in the opposition for another four years because of what is happening to the teeming populace of Nigeria.

“Nigerians are suffering,crying and wailing that they need another party,an alternative to what they are experiencing today.

“One that will bring them succour and joy to every home like we used to have it in 2015. For this to happen PDP have to put their house in order to occupy this position in 2023 and if we don’t get it right internally, resolving all crisis ailing us from within it may spell doom for our party.

The Face of Waziri boss however,made some proposal that may likely ease the trajectory of PDP back to power come 2023.

 “Given my clear view of our national polity in relation with what obtains in our party, I want to propose that the Chairmanship position of the party be zoned back to the south, so that an acceptable candidate,well known and respected crowd pusher,who is loved by everybody in PDP from the North can emerge as our presidential candidate.

The rotational zoning arrangement should be jettisoned, because if we go that route and eventually fields a candidate,who has no clout we may go back again to our opposition level.

“We need to start with our party Chairmanship position, let the Chairman that will drive the project 2023 be a vibrant and energetic,respected mobilizer.

“The present chairman is a candidate, who has done creditably well,having performed brilliantly during the last election,so if the party still want him to retain his position fine and good.

On the other way round,if the party intended rotating to another zone in the south it is also fine, but let’s not forget that a particular zone has not produced the chairmanship in the last 20-21 years,that zone I am referring to is the Southwest zone.

” I see no reason the next chairmanship of the party should not be zoned to the southwest.

“We have able hands,we have young, articulate mobilizers and respectable candidates in the zone, who can lead the party at the national level and can also drive the project 2023 for us.

“If we get it right from our internal democracy, we will get it right in 2023,our position as an organisation is that let us get it right,get a candidate who will be accepted by our teeming members and supporters.

“Age is but a number, we have seen cases where one could be 70,80 years old and can do better, the samples abound all over the world.

“It does not mean that because someone is this or that he cannot run, a nation. I want us to do something that will make our party to be reinvigorated and field a candidate that can convincingly trounce any candidate APC will field in 2023 arms down.

“We  don’t have to play into the hands of APC again in 2023,let’s field a candidate who has the spread across the six geo-political zone in Nigeria.

 “Let the candidate emerge as our consensus candidate, one that will be accepted by Yoruba,Ibo,Hausa,Fulani,Ijaws,Nupe,Tiv,Idoma and others that is the candidate we need.

“We have to field a candidate we are sure could pull crowds from every nooks and cranny of the country, who can tour it round and draw out the supporters.

“One with the financial warchest and everything you can think of to deliver for us, to tackle insecurity,joblessness, unemployment,poverty that is the candidate our party should field.

Adeojo who is leading the PDP stakeholders in the call for unity and bold steps to take,asserts the preparedness of the group to champion this course without fail.

This time around,we the stakeholders will not fold our hands and allow 2023  slip off our hands, that  is why we have to start on time.

 “We should clear our minds off every rancorous and divisive tendencies,hatred and what have you. 2019 scenario is bygone already, we need herald a new chapter,put our house in order,start the preparations right from now. The battle for 2023 has started.

“We need to entrench internal democracy totally in PDP.” Adeojo affirms.





Share this on WhatsApp