Share this on WhatsAppThe Managing Director of Afriland Properties Plc, Mrs Uzo Oshogwe, says the newly commissioned Heirs Towers in Lagos State is a further testament to the firm’s commitment to excellence and quality service delivery.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life Towers are on Ajose Adeogun , Victoria Island ,Lagos .
Oshogwe made the assertion in a statement made available to newsmen in Lagos on Friday.
According to her, the building is a hallmark of Afriland’s aptitude for turning challenges and complex projects into commercial successes.
“ We understand how our services affect client’s dreams and aspirations and leave no stone unturned to ensure that we deliver on their expectations.
“ We were involved in bringing this building to life from design to final delivery and as you can see, the quality of work put in, is truly exceptional,’’ she said.
The managing director lauded Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State for appreciating the tower during the commissioning a few days ago.
She said that the governor’s commendation on Mr Tony Elumelu for the quality of work put into bringing the idea of the iconic building to fruition was elating.
Elumelu is the Chairman of the Heirs Holdings Group and Afriland Properties.
“ I was happy to hear the governor say : “It is only Tony that can have contractors deliver this kind of a project on time and on budget .
“ So, I want to thank you for inviting me and also putting this skyline on our famous Ajose Adeogun ,’’ she quoted the governor  as saying.
Oshogwe noted that Afriland’s core values were the distinguishing factors in her operations.
“As an investee company of the Heirs Holdings Group, we are driven by our core values, execution, enterprise and excellence.
“These ensure that we remain unrelenting in our pursuit to attain industry excellence.
“This edifice reiterates the fact that we are masters in our craft and the fact that it has been fully occupied speaks to the quality of our work,’’ the managing director said.
NAN reports that Afriland Properties equally renovated the former Raymond House, now Afriland Towers, transforming the previously moribund building into a premium real estate asset on Broad Street, Lagos.
Afriland Properties Plc is a property management, investment, and development company, offering end-to-end services along the real estate value chain, from management to joint-venture investments.
Afriland is pioneering opportunities presented by an institutional approach to real estate, serving niche markets throughout Africa.
Share this on WhatsApp