Share this on WhatsAppA former militant leader in the Niger Delta, and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank, has cautioned Niger Delta that the meeting convened in Abuja by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio,  over the ultimatum issued by High Chief Government Ekpemupolo – Tompolo – for the reconstitution of a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), was not in the interest of the Niger Delta people.
Timi Frank, in a statement in Abuja, insisted that the Federal Government must comply with the ultimatum issued by High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, Tompolo, for the reconstitution of a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in the interest of the region.
He protested that Akpabio, being the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, should not invite Ijaw leaders, and other Niger Delta leaders to a meeting with him in Abuja on issues concerning the Niger Delta.
Timi Frank argued that the meeting in Abuja was an embarrassment to the people of Niger Delta, noting: “particularly our father, Chief Edwin Kiagbodo Clark, and members of the IYC and INC.”
Timi Frank alleged Akpabio intended to use the meeting to cover the illegalities he has so far perpetrated in the NDDC and the region, warning the presidency not to accept any position paper from the minister derived from the meeting.
He argued that if the meeting was genuine, it would have been held in any Niger Delta states.
Timi Frank in the statement declared: “The meeting with our people in Abuja by Akpabio is a deliberate ploy to undermine and deceive the Ijaws and Niger Delta people as well as the Federal Government over his selfish and sinister agenda.
“The action of Akpabio is based on his plans to divert Nigerians’ attention from the ultimatum handed down by Tompolo where he called for the urgent reconstitution of a substantive board for the NDDC.
“The insincerity of Akpabio is responsible for his call on Niger Delta leaders to meet him in Abuja. Why did he fail to call this type of meeting before now, if truly, he is sincere and his purpose altruistic?
“If any such meeting is to be convened at all, it has to be held in any of the Niger Delta states.
Akpabio cannot sit comfortably in Abuja and summon our elders and leaders like mere errand boys.
“The meeting was an insult. If the purpose is genuine, he should have called for the meeting in any of the Niger Delta states.”
Timi Frank had advocated boycott of the meeting with Akpabio, saying that whoever attended the meeting did so against the interests and aspirations of the Niger Delta peoples.
Timi Frank maintained: “I am using this opportunity to call on the Federal Government to respect the ultimatum given by Tompolo as nothing will change the positions of Chief Clark, Niger Delta governors and other stakeholders who have demanded the sack of the illegal sole administrator of the NDDC and the immediate reconstitution of the board of the agency.
“We, therefore, insist and stand by the demands of High Chief Government Ekpemupolo as stated in his ultimatum concerning the reconstitution of the NDDC Board.”
He added that, “Akpabio only invited those on his payroll to the kangaroo meeting. Anybody who attended the meeting called by Akpabio would be counted as one of the enemies of the good people of the Niger Delta region.”
He noted that Akpabio did not consult the governors of the region or Chief E.K. Clark, father of the region, before calling for the meeting with Niger Delta leaders.
 
Share this on WhatsApp