Share this on WhatsAppGovernor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has taken a bold step towards resolving the lingering crisis in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state.
National Daily gathered Governor Obaseki at a meeting with some PDP members in Edo North held at Jattu, Etsako West, explicitly declaring his aversion to the setting up of parallel executive structures of the party’s leadership in the state. The governor urged all party members to work towards proper harmonization that would bring peace and cohesiveness in Edo PDP.
The PDP Chairman in Etsako West, Momodu Abdulkarim Vastsa, in a statement indicated that Governor Obaseki attended the Etsako West PDP Stakeholders with the Deputy Governor of the state, Comrade Philip Shaibu.
Momodu Abdulkarim Vastsa declared that the governor’s position aligned with an earlier statement of the PDP stakeholders from Etsako West.
According to Abdulkarim Vastsa, “This is in clear, unequivocal and direct alignment with our earlier Exco Communique where we denounced those who are fond of going around claiming authorization for their nefarious, clandestine, undemocratic, yet comical gathering, in the name of the Governor and his Deputy.
“We knew they were political jesters, just gathering to socialize and drink alcohol.”
He stated: “if there were any doubts about their wanton desire to cause disaffection within the party just to fester their selfish nest, the message from the Governor is your answer.
“It is the answer clearly given to these rabble rousers by the Governor and affirmed loyalty by the Deputy Governor.”
Abdulkarim Vastsa, therefore, cautioned that going forward, any individual or group going about holding meetings in beer parlours and hotels under the guise of “Etsako West Leaders” without the authorization of the duly elected and constituted Local Government Exco would be sanctioned in accordance with the full provisions of the PDP Constitution.
“We will no longer permit these selfish and misguided individuals to continue to ferment discord within our ranks all in the desire for political oxygen,” he declared.
He congratulated Governor Obaseki and Deputy Governor Shaibu for their electoral victory which was later affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp