Share this on WhatsApp

Just like Twitter, Facebook has deleted President Buhari’s civil war statement saying it violates its community standards against inciting violence.
It would be recalled that the President had threatened punishment for regional secessionists blamed for attacks on government buildings.
PMB who served in the army stated on Tuesday that many people misbehaving today were too young to remember the deaths and destruction from the civil war.
READ ALSO:NDDC board: Ateke Tom compounds FG woes, backs Tompolo’s ultimatum
A quick check shows that Facebook has now removed the post from their platform, as the whole statement, has been removed from the media platform for violating Community Standards against inciting violence.
The social media giants reiterated its commitment to remove any content, from individuals or organisations that violates Facebook policies.
“In line with our global policies, we’ve removed a post from President Buhari’s Facebook page for violating our Community Standards against inciting violence. We remove any content, from individuals or organisations that violates our policies on Facebook.”
It would be recalled that micro-blogging platform, Twitter, also deleted Buhari’s tweet where he issued a threat to deal with “misbehaving” elements in “the language they understand”, while making reference to Nigeria’s civil war.
READ ALSO: Buhari bans Twitter from operating in Nigeria
While defending its action, the tech company said the President’s tweet violated its rules.
Meanwhile the Federal Government on Friday on Friday suspended indefinitely, the operations of the microblogging and social networking service, Twitter in Nigeria.
 The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, announced the suspension in a statement in Abuja on Friday.
 The minister cited the persistent use of the platform for activities capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence.
 He said the Federal Government had also directed the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) to immediately commence the process of licensing all OTT and social media operations in the country.

Share this on WhatsApp