Share this on WhatsApp

Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has hailed the University of Lagos (UNILAG) for the recent disciplinary action taken against two erring academic staff indicted in sex-for-mark scandal that rocked the school.
Recall that the Governing Council of UNILAG had on Tuesday sacked two lecturers of the school over alleged sexual harassment.
The lecturers were Dr. Boniface Igbeneghu of the Department of European Languages and Integration Studies, Faculty of Arts and Dr. Samuel Omoniyi Oladipo of the Department of Economics, Faculty of Social Sciences.
READ ALSO:Nigerians, Ghanaian soccer star nabbed for romance scam in US
Sanwo-Olu who spoke on Thursday when he received members of the Federal Government’s Visitation Panel for UNILAG who came on a courtesy call at the State House in Marina, said the sanction would not only serve as deterrent to members of the school that may have similar tendency, but also redeem the reputation of the university.
The Governor particularly praised the university management for the recent disciplinary action taken against two erring academic staff indicted in sex-for-mark scandal that rocked the school.
“The management of the school has been firm in ensuring that nobody is above the law. These are parts of the commendable steps which the school management has taken to ensure the standards are sustained.”
Sanwo-Olu reiterated his administration’s commitment to raise standards of education and academic research in the State, pointing out that the State Government had committed more investment in the sector to provide infrastructure in schools.
READ ALSO: Teenager in police net for allegedly stabbing brother’s pregnant wife in Kano
The Governor said the State Government would fulfil its pledge to UNILAG on construction of a standard jetty at the school waterfront, stressing that other infrastructure around the campus were being ramped up. He cited the ongoing reconstruction work on St. Finbar’s Road and Iwaya Road, and other adjoining areas around UNILAG.
Leader of the delegation, Lt. Gen. Martin Luther Agwai (rtd) described Sanwo-Olu as “education-friendly Governor, acknowledging the strides attained by Lagos in the education sector.
He said the panel was raised by the Federal Government to carry out a full assessment of the administration of the school to know the challenges it is facing in delivering on its mandate.
He said: “We are also mandated to carry out assessment on the resources available to the university and how they have been utilised. We are looking at the laws setting up the school and relationship of the university with statutory bodies and its host community.”

Share this on WhatsApp