Share this on WhatsAppThe Portuguese captain Cristiano Ronaldo is one of the few recorded players with over 1,100 professional career appearances for club and country and has remarkably scored over 780 goals.
Ronaldo who is only the second male footballer to score over 100 international goals and the first European male to achieve the feat led his country to the ongoing Euro 2020 tournament with the hope of defending the title they won in 2016.
The Juventus super star and Portugal has started the tournament brightly where he netted a penalty and scored another against Hungary on Tuesday night to ensure more records are added to his extensive collection.
Ronaldo’s outstanding feat on Tuesday has not only stood him out as becoming the first player to feature at five finals tournaments, but also as the all-time record goalscorer at European Championships with his brace in Portugal’s 3-0 win over Hungary in Budapest.
The former Manchester United forward has represented his country at every Euros since Portugal hosted the tournament in 2004, and he has remained the talisman of the reigning champions 17 years later.
The 4-time Ballon d’Or award winner added several records to his impressive individual collection of honours on Tuesday when he became the top scorer in Euros history with his 10th goal in the competition with a late penalty, which was followed by his 11th in stoppage time.
National Daily can confirm that in addition to the aforementioned records, the former Real Madrid attacker also set a pair of other marks with his double in Budapest.
At 36 years, 130 days, Ronaldo became oldest player to score for Portugal at a major tournament, breaking the record set by Pepe at World Cup 2018 (35 years, 124 days).
The 2020/2021 Serie A highest goal scorer also become the oldest player to score at least two goals in a European Championship match, breaking the record set by Andriy Schevchenko when he was 35 years, 256 days.
Ronaldo extended his personal record statistics from individual to team record on Tuesday with Portugal’s late blitz, which also included an 84th-minute opener from Raphael Guerreiro and Ronaldo’s later double meant that Portugal are now the first side to score three or more goals in the last 10 minutes of a Euros match.
Remarkably, Ronaldo now has 106 goals in 176 games for Portugal and only three short of the all-time FIFA international record, held by Iran’s Ali Daei.
Share this on WhatsApp