Share this on WhatsApp
Aims at a new record participation in the epochal programme

The historic sixth edition of Global Day of Prayer with Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, is set to hit the airwaves at 6pm GMT+1, today Friday, June 25th through to Saturday, June 26th. With an anticipated record of over 6 billion participants from around the world.
The previous editions of the Global Day of Prayer have been remarkable for bringing about notable changes across the globe such as the opening of places of worship, lifting of lockdowns and resumption of commercial activities in hitherto, locked down cities and nations, exposure of the Covid-19 origin, Vaccine fraud among others and other remarkable changes. The 5th edition was no doubt more impactful as the glory of the later house surpassed that of the former with 5,3 billion people participating.
Also Read: When over 40 million Ministers of the Gospel joined Pastor Chris in a Global Classroom
Apart from the several hundreds of millions that will connect to the various stations of the LoveWorld Networks, several millions of others also connect to over 1643 terrestrial TV stations, radio stations and internet platforms in over 210 countries that will broadcast the event live.
Speaking about the times, Pastor Chris said God has graciously called Christians for this time.
“It is not a surprise. We are prepared for this time. God knew what was coming and he prepared us years ago and we are ready to meet the challenges of the times and to win,” he says.
Also Read: A new world order will come through the Church &#8211; Pastor Chris Oyakhilome
The first edition of the Global Day of Prayer held on March 27, 2020, recorded a global participation of over three billion people from every nation of the world.
The second and third editions had over 3.5 billion people participating, while the last edition in March of 2021 had 5.3 billion people participating across several platforms.
Also Read: Over 5.3 Billion People Join Pastor Chris for First Global Day of Prayer in 2021
Also Read: Pastor Chris set to network billions at his Global Day of Prayer, today
The year-long global prayer network with Pastor Chris, which commenced January 6, 2020, and has continued non-stop ever since and till date.
In the 545 days of prayer so far, members of the Loveworld Nation and partner Ministries have been praying without ceasing for over 13,080 hours which is 784,800 minutes. And participation has been from over 300 nations and territories.
Director of Programmes and Corporate Affairs of the Ministry, Pastor Ifeoma Chiemeka, encouraged as many who are interested in the event to “visit www.pastorchrisonline.org to register to participate.
Share this on WhatsApp