Share this on WhatsAppThe fear of the Boko Haram terrorists in northeast Nigeria may have subtly paralyzed the Nigerian presidency. Accordingly, President Muhammadu Buhari visits Maiduguri, Borno State, on Thursday, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Lucky Irabor, and the other service Chiefs of the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Navy and the Nigerian Air Force, had relocated in advance to Maiduguri, Borno State, before the arrival of the president.
It was gathered that President Buhari is visiting Maiduguri for assessment of the security situation in the northeast. However, the proposed assessment may be limited to sheer official visit to Borno State and mere not include visiting the troubled communities or the Sambisa Forest where the Boko Haram terrorists have been having full operations over the years.
There were indications that the Chief of Defence Staff, General Irabor, the Chief of Army Staff, Major-General Farouq Yahaya, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao, Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Awwal Gambo, the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali, and the Chief of Military Intelligence, have gone to Maiduguri to ensure adequate security in the state before the arrival of the president.
They are expected to provide coverage and escort for the president while in Borno State.
It was gathered that the Chief of Defence Staff and his entourage on arrival at the Maiduguri Airforce Base, immediately went to the Headquarters of the Joint Task Force, Operation Hadin Kai, for first hand update.
The Acting Theatre Commander, Major-General F.O. Omoigui, was said to have briefed the CDS and the service chefs that the task force has recorded successes in many operations. Omoigui had stated that “The successes have continued to create a more enabling environment for socio-economic activities.”
The CDS and the security chiefs subsequently held broader meeting with the Acting Theatre Commander, Omoigui, the General Officer Commanding, GOC 7 Division, Brigadier-General A.A Eyitayo, Component, Formation and Unit Commanders, on the insecurity crisis and the fight against the terrorists in the northeast.
It was disclosed that President Buhari while in Maiduguri on Thursday, would address the troops, and commission some completed Federal and State Government projects, in the frontline state.
Share this on WhatsApp