Share this on WhatsAppThe Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is subtly going through latent uneasiness over repositioning the opposition party for the 2023 presidential election in the country.  One of the sources of the latent uneasiness is the conversion of reconciliation role by the former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, to penetrating for control of the party towards his presidential ambition in 2023.
Saraki was appointed head of the reconciliation committee by the PDP leadership to work towards reuniting warring PDP members in order to strengthen the party for the next general elections.
It has been observed that the former senate president has traveled the length and breadth of Nigeria, having dialogue with notable PDP members, including the former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, and Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State who were having rivalry over the PDP leader in the southwest. In so doing, Saraki has repeated told the PDP members the essence of working together to retrieve the president from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. The former Kwara State governor while inspiring party members acquainted them that retrieving power from the APC in 2023 will be difficult nut possible. He stated that they will have to fight, noting that there will be costs of fighting the incumbent party government but with determination, the PDP can unseat the ruling party in the 2023 general elections.
Saraki has been moving from state to state, holding dialogue with PDP members.
The Head of PDP Reconciliation Committee had led the committee members to former President Goodluck Jonathan, including former President Olusegun Obasanjo, seeking their support to unite the party.
However, while on the PDP national assignment, Saraki has been fortifying his presidential campaign structure, and deepening his negotiations and overtures in his interactions with PDP stakeholders. Attempts are being made to influence party leaders from the national to the state level.
Party sources revealed that the former senate president has deepened negotiations and trade offs for the 2023 presidential ticket of the PDP with party stakeholders in the southeast. He is also penetrating some federal lawmakers, negotiating alliances in the build up to 2023.
Being conscious that the contest for the party presidential ticket is solely internal decision of the PDP, Saraki is not concentrating on the national leadership of the party alone but extending his influence to party leaders in several states.
Some state party secretariats were said to be allegedly looking unto the PDP Reconciliation Committee Chairman for fanatical support to run the secretariat.
Majority delegates to the party’s national convention for the nomination of the presidential candidate would emerge from the states.
Meanwhile, Saraki would have other presidential aspirants to contend with in the PDP. Virtually, all aspirants that participated in the PDP convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, where former Vice President Atiku Abubakar won the party’s ticket, are still in the race for the 2023 elections. The aspirants include Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State, who has strong alliance with Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State; Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, former Governor of Kano State; former Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State; etc. It is not certain if former Senate President David Mark will be joining the race for a second time.
Former Vice President Atiku is also consolidating on his mobilization for the PDP presidential ticket in 2023.
Share this on WhatsApp