Share this on WhatsApp

A 47-year old mother-of-three, Lucy Taberer, has died after suffering a rare catastrophic reaction to the AstraZeneca coronavirus jab, her family has said.
She fell seriously ill after getting the jab and developed blood clots in her brain which caused a stroke.
Her heartbroken fiancé, Mark Tomlin, from Aylestone in Leicester, has since spoken about the devastating impact her death has had on the family including the couple’s five-year-old son Orson.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on June 25 added a warning to patient and provider fact sheets for Pfizer and Moderna COVID vaccines indicating an increased risk of myocarditis and pericarditis following vaccination.
READ ALSO: COVID-19 vaccines’ fatalities among all age groups surpass 6,000 in US
The warning notes reports of adverse events suggest increased risks of myocarditis and pericarditis, particularly following the second dose and with onset of symptoms within a few days after vaccination.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has received reports of 4,115 patients with COVID-19 vaccine breakthrough cases who were hospitalized or died. Of those cases, 26% of hospitalizations were reported as asymptomatic or not related to COVID-19, and 19% of the 750 fatalities were reported as asymptomatic or not related to COVID-19.
READ ALSO: COVID-19: Stop using our children as guinea pigs, group tells US govt
The data, which includes information through June 21, is amid a backdrop of 150 million people who are fully vaccinated in the U.S. Nearly half of the breakthrough cases, or 49%, involve females, and 3,124, or 76%, occurred in patients ages 65 years and older.
A second vaccine choice for teens could become available if the FDA grants emergency authorization for Moderna to administer its COVID-19 vaccine to children aged 12-17.
A San Antonio girl says she is participating in the trial with hopes it can help kids live a normal life.
“I was a little hesitant at first but I knew the vaccine trial would help get the vaccine out quicker,” Angelina tells KENS 5.

Share this on WhatsApp