Share this on WhatsAppThe Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in consideration of two judgments of the court, dissolved all the executives in Anambra State chapter, and subsequently, adopted an automatic delegates system for the conduct of the party’s primary election to elect a candidate for the Anambra State governorship election. The PDP leadership insisted that the primary will be held on Saturday, June 26, 2021, scheduled.
The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement in Abuja declared: “in view of the two judgments of the court served on our party, the National Working Committee (NWC), on behalf of the National Executive Committee (NEC) and pursuant to Section 29(2)(b) of the PDP Constitution (2017 as amended), hereby, dissolves all the executives in our Anambra state chapter.
“However, our processes towards electing a candidate for the November 6, 2021 Anambra governorship election subsist.
“Our processes continue as we adopt a lawful process of allowing our eligible automatic delegates to carry out the responsibilities of electing our candidate for the governorship election.
“Accordingly, the governorship primary to elect our candidate for the Anambra governorship election holds as scheduled on Saturday, June 26, 2021.
“The PDP directs the South East Zonal Caretaker Committee of our party to oversee and manage the affairs of the activities of the Anambra State chapter of our party, pending when new executives will be elected for the state.
“All governorship aspirants on the platform of our party, leaders, critical stakeholders, teeming members and supporters of our party as well as the people of Anambra State are guided accordingly.”
The PDP National Working Committee appointed Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State Chairman of the Anambra State Gubernatorial Primary Electoral Committee holding on Saturday June 26, 2021.
Other members of the committee include: Deputy Governor of Edo State, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu,  Secretary; Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, member; Rt. Hon George Kaika and Hajiya Habiba Muhammed.
Share this on WhatsApp