Share this on WhatsAppThe Biafra Nations League (BNL) on Wednesday warned the Nigerian government that the arrest, extradition and resumed trial of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) cannot stop agitations for Biafra independence.
The Deputy National Leader of BNL, and Head of Operations, BBs Media, Ebuta Takon, on Wednesday insisted that the struggle for Biafra won’t end with Nnamdi Kanu. Takon berated the President of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) for celebrating the arrest of the IPOB Leader, Nnamdi Kanu. He was of the view that the ACF has nothing to offer for the good of the country.
The BNL leader declared that “all freedom fighters are ready to pay the price.” He stated that the arrest of Kanu was not the first, nor is he the first person to be arrested in the Biafran struggle. Takon pointed out that the MASSOB Leader, Ralph Uwazuruike, was arrested several times and taken to Abuja. He added that others like Asari Dokubo, Benjamin Onwuka, leader of Biafra Zionist Federation in Enugu; and the BNL National Leader, Princewill Chimezie Richard, apprehended by Troops in Bakassi Peninsula in 2016, with  John Ita, a top commander of the Bakassi Strike Force, were at different times taken hostage by the Nigerian government. Takon further said that members and supporters of the Biafran struggle have been facing arrest and torture from the government, adding that they are prepared for more arrest and torture.  The BNL leader cautioned that provoking statements from northern leaders could trigger violent crisis, maintaining that Biafra agitators will not be deterred by the Nigerian government suppression.
Takon declared  that Ambazonians detained in Nigerian cells and their Commander, Ntui Lambert Assam, alias Black Mamba, an Ejagham Cameroon, would cause a spike in the crisis that would soon engulf Nigeria if they’ are not released by the government; adding that the border zones in Cameroon would be unsafe if the detainees are not freed.
Takon rejected suggestions for negotiation with President Mohammadu Buhari, saying that Biafrans would only negotiate a separate Republic, not release of Kanu.
Share this on WhatsApp