Share this on WhatsApp

Nigeria’s fast-rising gospel artist, Adeyinka Alaseyori has finally reacted to famous gospel singer, Tope Alabi’s criticism on her popular song; ‘Oniduro mi e seun’
She said; “I am delighted to worship and praise God. I want everyone all over the world to join me and I would like to say this. Please, let peace reign. Mummy Tope Alabi is our mother. Let us embrace peace and be happy in God.”
She further took to her Instagram page on Wednesday, June 16th, 2021 to preach peace.
She wrote; “If you love God, please in God’s name, don’t comment otherwise. May the peace of God and the God of peace fill our heart.”
“May we receive grace to rise above all weaknesses. May the hand of God wrap and shield us all. May the power of God do the unimaginable in our lives? May the mercy of God speak forth where we have lost our voices.”
“May the love of God return to our hearts and Altars. May the fresh fire of revival of the spirit not elude us. May we all come to the real knowledge of God and his power.”
“May we receive help to remain in the secret place of the most high. May the unity of faith be achieved in my own life time. May we not pray and praise amiss.”
“May we begin to tap into new realms of glory. May the gate of hell not prevail against the Church. We receive help not to submit to the will of the flesh. All In Jesus name I pray and believe.”
Recall that Tope Alabi recently criticised Alaseyori’s ‘Oniduro mi e seun’ song during an event where she claimed that she wanted to sing the song, but the Holy Spirit told her to shut up.
Tope Alabi who equally condemned the song, stated that “it will be wrong for anybody to tag God as his or her Guarantor.”
However, her statement has since created lots of controversies and several mixed reactions on the social media leading to backlashes.
For those who don’t know, Alaseyori in the song described God as her ‘Spiritual Guarantor’. The song; ‘Oniduro mi e seun’ means ‘thank you my guarantor’

Share this on WhatsApp