Share this on WhatsApp

The International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law (Intersociety) has decried the invasion of Barr Ifeanyi Ejiofor’s home in Oraifite, Ekwusigo Anambra state by security officials in the early hours of Sunday.

Barr Ejiifor is the attorney for the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.


In a statement by Intersociety, the latest armed violence from the Government of Nigeria started some minutes before 3am early morning of today being Sunday, 6th June 2021 and Intersociety was alerted around some minutes before 4am, leading to issuance of the statement.

READ ALSO: Ijaw youth dare IPOB over plan to infiltrate Bayelsa

It must be recalled that Barr Ifeanyi Ejiofor, his siblings and their family houses in Oraifite, Ekwusigo, Anambra State were attacked on 2nd Dec 2019.

Condemning the latest invasion of Ejiofor’s home, Intersociety called on the Nigerian Government and its security forces “to stop this madness and crudity”, saying: “By these crudites, the Nigerian Government is setting the country on fire the more and this is what Intersociety, as an expert rights group, has kept telling the Nigerian Government since 2016. 
 
“The crude method by Government of Nigeria including invasion of citizens’ homes at ungodly hours especially the dwelling homes of respected and legally recognizable persons and brazen violation of their rights to privacy and family is universally unheard of, despicable and condemnable.
READ ALSO:Buhari prepares final onslaught against IPOB, meets security chiefs


“Also under Nigeria’s extant laws, applicable globally, Barr Ifeanyi Ejiofor and other licensed legal practitioners have right and duty to represent and defend any citizen or citizens or national or nationals irrespective of gravity of crime(s) alleged to have been committed. The security forces of Nigeria are hereby called upon to withdraw and discontinue their siege and follow due process. If Barr Ifeanyi Ejiofor is legitimately wanted for any crime, due processes must be followed to the letter.”
“This is more so when he called and informed the chief police officer in the area (ACP Afolabi) of his being around for a weekend rest. Therefore, if anything untoward happened to the Lawyer and his family or properties including his family hose and law offices, the world is being put on notice to hold the Nigerian Government responsible.”




Share this on WhatsApp