Share this on WhatsAppChelsea fans are obviously still in the ecstasy of their club conquering all European clubs to the 2020/2021 UEFA Champions League title.
Meanwhile, their celebrations have been magnified with news that the Blues are planning a spectacular move for one of the hottest young talent in the football world.
The news of Chelsea making Erling Haaland their main transfer target was received with much jubilation by Chelsea fans who have craved for a goal machine to complement their remarkable feat last season.
Their above quest may not be unconnected with the fact that the youngstar scored 41 goals in 41 appearances for Borussia Dortmund last term while taking his total goals at club level since the start of the 2019/20 season to 85.
Chelsea who were rumored to be interested in a double swoop for Erling Haaland and Achraf Hakimi this summer have gone ahead to prioritize the transfer of the former ahead of the transfer window that got opened in England yesterday.
The Stamford Bridge club successfully matched PSG with a £56million offer for the Moroccan international Achraf Hakimi in bid to reunite him with Haaland at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday before Inter Milan knocked back both bids as they value the player at £70m.
The 22-year-old Hakimi was a standout for Antonio Conte’s men as the Italians wrestled the title off Juventus and end their nine-in-a-row Serie A title run.
Though, Hakimi has not emerged as Chelsea’s number one transfer priority this summer, but Haaland.
Interestingly for Chelsea fans, reports emanating from Norway have claimed that the Borussia Dortmund goal machine is favouring a switch to Stamford Bridge and is willing to wait until next summer for that to happen.
Meanwhile, the Norwegian international could cost Chelsea up to £150m if they actually want to push the deal through during this window.
However, Chelsea can also wait until this time next year to get their main target on a reduced transfer fee between £65m and £86m when the Norwegian’s release contract will kick in.
National Daily previously gathered that Manchester United, Barcelona, Real Madrid and Manchester City have all showed interest in securing the transfer of the 20-year-old Norwegian sensation.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp