Share this on WhatsApp
A joint team of the Nigerian Army, Nigeria Police and others on Sunday saved Owerri, Imo State, from another bloody attack by bandits. The joint-force successfully repelled the armed group advancing to invade Owerri during the hours of church service.

The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Imo Police Command, SP Bala Elkana, in a statement narrated that “at about 0615 hours on Sunday when Imolites were preparing to go to Church, hoodlums planned to turn the beautiful Sunday into a black Sunday with an attempt to attack Owerri the State Capital.”

The PPRO disclosed that the bandits who came in a white hummer bus, wanted to access the Command Headquarters through Works Layout, around Alvan Nursery and Primary School, Owerri, but had a bloody fight with the security forces. He said that they were first Intercepted by the Military at the outer perimeter cordon provided for the Police.

SP Elkana also said that five of the hoodlums were killed in action (KIA), including Joseph Uka Nnachi, alias King of Dragons. He added that one suspect, Stanley Osinachi, ‘m’ 30 years old of Achi/Mberi, Mbaitoli Local Government Area, Imo State, was arrested and presently aiding investigation. The arrested suspect was said to have confirmed that Dragon is the leader of the gang in Imo State reporting to their supreme leader Nnamdi Kanu. He stated that they belong to the proscribed IPOB and ESN.

The police disclosed that four AK 47 rifles with 2000 rounds of live ammunition and a large number of explosives were recovered from the scene. “The Rifles breech numbers were crossed checked and found to be the same Police Rifles that were stolen by the hoodlums from our Police station at Omuma on 31st May, 2021 which claimed the lives of four Policemen,” SP Elkana said.

The police disclosed that other exhibits recovered from the suspects include:



I. Assault (AR) Rifle Breach N0: 03018058
II. Assault (AR) Rifle Breach N0: 070007055
III. Assault (AR) RIFLE Breach N0: 5801297
IV. Six locally fabricated Explosive Devices
V. Police Beret Cap
VI. 7 AK47 Magazines fully loaded
VII. 1 military cap
VIII. 1 military cardigan (Polo)
IX. 1 Silver Coloured Mini Bus with Reg N0: WAM-8673 B ABD
X. I Hummer Bus with Reg N0: KED-382 X Ladden with Explosive Devices.
According to SP Bala Elkana, “The same gang together with their members that were killed in previous operations were responsible for a series of attacks in different parts of the State. “They are the same people in the viral video that blocked the flyover at Orji and killed three unarmed civilians, including a woman they brought out of their vehicle blindfolded.”
He added: “a Police Inspector sustained gunshot wounds during the exchange of fire this morning and is currently receiving medical attention.”
It was indicated that the Commissioner of Police, Imo State Police Command, CP Abutu Yaro, has commended the gallant effort of the security forces who stood firm and put their lives on the line in this accomplishment and restored sanity to Imo State. The CP used the opportunity to condole with families of Policemen that lost their lives in the hands of these terror gangs over the last few weeks and those that sustained various degrees of injuries. They are the real heroes., the CP said.
The Police Commissioner also extended his gratitude to the Inspector General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, for supporting the command with the necessary resources used in combating the deadly gang.
The CP also thanked the Government and people of Imo State for their support and undiluted trust in the ability of the Police to restore peace to the State.
Most importantly, the Commissioner of Police deeply appreciated the Armed Forces and the DSS. “The Department of State Services has constantly fed the joint operation with credible intelligence while the Military has consistently provided defence and outer cover to the Police. The synergy amongst all the services is superb and has culminated in the landmark victory recorded today,” the CP stated.
The Police Commissioner, thereafter, called on all those in possession of weapons stolen from Security Agencies to return them to the nearest Police Station or Military Installation not later than 12th  June 2021, to prevent the long arms of the law catching up with them.





Share this on WhatsApp