Share this on WhatsApp 
The leadership of the Biafra Nations League (BNL) has berated the governors of the southeast states, the ministers in the federal cabinet of the Buhari administration, other Igbo elder statesmen and the leadership of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo over their denouncing of Biafra and dissociating themselves from the pro-Biafra groups. The Biafra Nations League leaders cautioned the Igbo leaders that they lack the power to tradeoff Biafra for president in the 2023 elections. The BNL National Leader, Princewill Chimezie Richard, admonished the Igbo governors, ministers and other leaders to refrain from the plots to subvert the struggle for Biafra autonomy, or restrict the Biafra struggle to Igbo interest.
 
The BNL National Leader maintained that the struggle for Biafra is not synonymous with struggle for ethnic interest. He warned that the southeast governors, ministers, and other leaders should not alternate the freedom of Igbo people for parochial political gains, adding that southeast leaders should desist from misleading the people by demanding for Igbo president in substitution to the Biafran independence.
Princewill Chimezie Richard declared that Biafra is a movement for the freedom of all peoples in the Bight of Biafra within the Nigeria clime. He reiterated that Biafra cannot be exchanged for Igbo President.
Princewill Chimezie Richard noted that the Biafra struggle has extended beyond the Igbo land into the Gulf of Guinea, cautioning that southeast leaders should not use the Biafra struggle as an opportunity to seek settlement from the federal government, to the exclusion of people from other areas.
BNL chided former Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, who argued that Igbos will lose more if Biafra breaks up from Nigeria. Princewill said Rochas was afraid of all his investment in northern Nigeria, adding: “we can’t because some people have sworn to continue to invest in the north, end the struggle for Biafra independence, no!
“Biafra is needed more than securing individual investment. “Is Rochas blind, was he not aware of the abandoned property of Igbos in many parts of Nigeria after the civil war; yet, he went investing in the north, and now telling us what not to do. I will advise him to repatriate his wealth home.”
He insisted that BNL would not give up the Biafra struggle and will continue to blockade the Bakassi Peninsula and the gulf region.
Share this on WhatsApp