Share this on WhatsAppThe global football manager, FIFA, is facing the risk of losing billions of dollars as the World Cup 2022 host, Qatar, imposes severe restrictions on COVID-19 vaccination before permitting football fans into the country. The restrictions imposed by the Qatar authorities are coming despite failing lies about the number of vaccinated people already vaccinated in the country by the government, which claimed to have administered over 2.8 million doses of vaccines.
Qatar Prime Minister, Sheikh Khalid bin Khalifa bin Abdulaziz Al Thani, acknowledged that most countries have been vaccinating their citizens; he insisted that Qatar will still take additional measures to ensure a successful event. It was indicated that Qatar had administered about 2.8 million doses of Pfizer and Moderna coronavirus vaccines on its citizens and residents.
The question most stakeholders ask is: “If vaccine is really an Immunization against Covid, why should it bother the government of Qatar that people who are not vaccinated should mix with those vaccinated?”
There are suspicions that these and more expose the COVID fraud in most countries of the world.
The Qatar Prime Minister noted the statement of the FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, in February that in the World Cup hosted in Qatar between November 21 and December 18, 2022, all matches will be played in full stadia.
Despite global records of improvement on the coronavirus pandemic and drastic drop in new cases in several countries, Qatar, still insists on negotiating procurement of one million coronavirus vaccine doses to augment anticipated deficiency from any country sending fans to the world cup in Qatar.
While the World health organization (WHO), recently acknowledged that figures of deaths from coronavirus cases are dropping, including decline in new cases, Qatar is negotiating the procurement of one million COVID-19 vaccines to inoculate football fans entering the country for the 2022 World Cup.
The government of Qatar further insisted on restriction of visa permit to only fully Covid-19 vaccinated fans to watch the 2022 World Cup.
According to the Qatar Prime Minister, Sheikh Khalid bin Khalifa bin Abdulaziz Al Thani, “we are currently negotiating with a company to provide one million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in order to immunise and vaccinate some of those coming to Qatar.”
The Qatar vaccine decision places FIFA, the organizers of the World Cup, on high risk of having millions of fans denied entrance into Qatar and access into the stadia on match days. These are stadia the FIFA President had declared would be filled to full capacity during matches.
FIFA, like other social and economic systems across the world, is yet to recover from the lockdowns of 2020 over the perception of a coronavirus outbreak. Qatar is overtly compounding the recovery rate of FIFA and the chances of revenue generation for the Federation’s activities.
The Prime Minister, Sheikh Khalid, however, set the 2021 Arab Cup, hosted by Doha in December, as a parameter for Qatar to evaluate its readiness for the World Cup.
 
Share this on WhatsApp