Share this on WhatsApp
Police calls for calm
Niger Delta militants on red alert

There were indications of rising tension in Delta State as residents of Asaba on Sunday found a letter from “Fulani Jihadists” giving Governor Ifeanyi Okowa 72-hour ultimatum to reverse his support for the ban on open grazing issued in Asaba by southern governors, threatening to attack the state capital and some other identified big towns in the state.
It was gathered that the letter – Fulani Jihadist Warning: An Open Message Of 2 Paragraphs To Delta State – was found pasted at different sensitive locations in Asaba, the state capital, as well as on the fence of the Living Faith Church -Winners Chapel – at Infant Jesus Road, Asaba.
Meanwhile, the Delta State Police Command was said to have urged the residents of Delta State to be calm over the alleged threat letter from the Fulani Jihadists planning to attack Asaba, Warri and Agbor, among others because of the ban on open grazing by southern governors at a meeting in Asaba.
The Fulani Jihadists were said to have in their threat letter claimed responsibility for the recent fire outbreak at the Federal Secretariat, Asaba.
They further threatened that their operatives are already in the state to commence hostilities if Governor Okowa within 72 hours does not accede  to their demands, reiterating that they would commence attacks three days from Sunday that the ultimatum was issued.
The alleged letter, according to a report,  reads: “This is to inform Delta state that the Fulani’s of Usman dan Fodio leadership, shall do everything it can to uphold the legacy of our heritage of open grazing for we are nomadic people from origination and shall never negotiate the ownership of Nigeria and West Africa and Sub-Sahara.
“We hereby demand the Governor of Delta State to immediately withdraw his early stand for the call to ban open grazing in 17 regions in not less than 72hours from the above date and also, withdraw his position as the leading voice for the governors, as no occurrence we don’t have the first-hand information, even before the hosting of the South-south. South-east and South-south governors meeting in Asaba.
“Failure to adhere to this demand for being the host of the 17 governors, Delta state, most likely the city of Asaba and Agbor, shall encounter severe consequences than that of Bornu, Kebbi, Kastina, Kaduna, Enugu, Benue, Oyo and many more that will not respect the Fulani’s heritage, as we take responsibility for the detonate explosive uncovered in the state capital secretariat, which should serve as warning to the Delta state government for what is to come, should the governor fail to abide to our demand.
“We highly advice all Fulani’s and Northerners, including the security personnel to leave Delta state as soon as possible for the wind of our action is now present in the land, for failure of the governor to adhere to our call, this shall live us with no choice.”
Meanwhile, there is red alert in the state. The Niger Delta militants were gathered to be rebuilding to defend Delta State and other parts of the south-south on the slightest provocation.
Share this on WhatsApp