Major General Obi Abel Umahi (rtd)
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppThere are emerging cracks in the southeast over the resignation of Major General Obi Abel Umahi (rtd), Chairman of the Southeast Security Committee, Ebubeagu. Umahi had resigned his appointment, citing lack of cooperation from the southeast governors for the effective performance of the regional security structure formed to tackle the insecurity crisis in South East Nigeria.
Umahi addressed his resignation letter dated June 4, 2021, titled: “Resignation As Chairman South East Security Committee – Ebubeagu”, to the Chairman of the South East Governor’s Forum, Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State.
He complained that while the legal team of Ebubeagu was funded by Governor Umahi of Ebonyi State, the funding of the security structure suffered setback from the agreement reached with Governors of the five South East states.
“From inception to date, the SE Security Committee was never funded at all in any capacity and not even an office space was provided,” Umahi declared. He then tendered his resignation letter.
It was gathered that Umahi copied the letter to the President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof. George Obiozor; including the Director General of the South East Governors’ Forum.
The letter, according to sources reads: “Since this Security Committee was formed, we deliberated and agreed on ways to raise security consciousness down to the community level in Igbo land, mode of operations, logistics and some types of equipment required, such as drones, vehicles etc. We also crafted the Concept of SE Security.
“Additionally, I chaired a 21-man Committee set up to draft a legal framework for the SE Security outfit. The committee was composed of members of the SE Security committee, the Attorney generals of the five SE States and some prominent Igbo sons and daughters. The 21-man Legal Framework Committee was funded to completion by the Governor of Ebonyi State.
“On 11th April 2021, SE Governors announced the formation of EBUBEAGU at Owerri. Subsequently, the draft legal framework produced by the 21-man Committee was reviewed by SE Security Committee members and the Attorney Generals of the five SE States to suit South East Ebubeagu Security outfit.
“The SE Security Committee thoroughly prepared and submitted the modalities, including the structure, for the take-off of EBUBEAGU to the Governors’ Forum during the security of South East Governors’ Forum, attended by the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide and some other Igbo leaders a request that EBUBEAGU should be jointly rolled out as a matter of urgency and also funded by the Government of the five SE States. From inception to date, SE Security Committee was never funded at all in any capacity and not even an office space was provided.
“At this juncture that EBUBEAGU will soon come fully on-stream, I respectfully request that Your Excellencies kindly permit me to resign my appointment as the chairman, SE Security Committee. in the spirit of my love to serve Ndigbo, I can assure you that I will always be available to advice on the success of EBUBEAGU at no cost, just as I served as the Chairman of South East Security Committee from 31 August 2019 till date at no cost directly or indirectly to the five South East State Government, groups and individual. I highly appreciate Your Excellencies for the opportunity you gave me to serve Ndigbo.
“Please be assured of my loyalty, respect and accept my highest regards of your esteemed considerations.”
National Daily is yet to confirm if the resignation of Umahi has been accepted by the southeast governors.
Share this on WhatsApp