Share this on WhatsApp

Following the indefinite suspension of Twitter by the Nigerian government, the question on people’s mind is how to bypass these restrictions and still access Twitter in case of a major internet shutdown in the future.
A Virtual Private Network (VPN) allows you to create a secure connection to another network over the Internet by hiding your traffic from being seen by others. It basically connects your PC, smartphone, or tablet to another server and allows you to browse the internet.
So, if that server is in a different country, it will appear as if you are browsing from that country, and you can potentially access things that you couldn’t normally.
In the event of an internet shutdown, whether partial or full, these VPNs will help you route your location to a different one where you can still access the internet. Most of them are free while some require a subscription fee.
READ ALSO: 2023: Northern group ready to back Tinubu, other Southern candidates if…
Express VPN is engineered to protect your privacy and safety. You can go online safely with blazing-fast speed in just a few taps. You can connect to 3,000+ VPN servers in 160 locations in 94 countries. The platform doesn’t collect activity logs or connection logs—it’s been independently audited to ensure your protection. The app is available on playstore and has over 10M+ downloads. Pricing starts at $6.67 per month.
Tor gives its users the ability to use the internet with as much privacy as possible by routing traffic through multiple servers and encrypting it each step of the way. You can download the browser to your pc or download the app on playstore. Tor is open source and free to use.
NordVPN is the best VPN if you’re looking for peace of mind when on public Wi-Fi. It allows you to securely access personal information or work files, encrypt your internet connection, and keep your browsing history private. You can choose from over 5400 NordVPN servers in 59 countries and enjoy the fastest VPN experience. The pricing starts at $3.71 per month. Nordvpn has over 10M+ downloads on the play store.
READ ALSO: Again, violence erupts at Igangan; Fulani attackers, locals dead
Windscribe VPN is a tool that secures Wi-Fi and helps you safeguard your privacy online. It’s free to use and offers up to 10GB of bandwidth per month. You can use it on your iPhone, iPad, Mac or Windows PC, or as a browser add-on for Chrome, Firefox and Opera. The app gives you access to servers in 10 countries including the US, Canada and the UK. It has over 5M+ downloads on the play store.
Faster internet with WARP makes your Internet safer and more private. It replaces the connection between your phone and the Internet with a modern, optimized, protocol and also prevents anyone from snooping on you by encrypting more of the traffic leaving your device. It is available for macOS and Windows and has over 50m+ downloads on the play store
Share this on WhatsApp