Share this on WhatsApp

Two soldiers and 12 Boko Haram terrorists lost their lives during shoot out when the terrorists group attacked a Forward Operation Base at Bula Yobe in Borno State before they were repelled by troops on Sunday.
The Director of Army Public Relation, Brig. Gen. Onyeama Nwachukwu, confirmed the development in a statement on Monday, however, said two soldiers died and five others injured in the attack.
The army spokesman said the operation was largely successful due to the proper coordination between the air component of Operation Hadin Kai and the ground troops.
According to Nwachukwu, gun trucks and other lethal weapons were recovered from the terrorists.
READ ALSO: Fear of Boko Haram: Chief of Defence, Service Chiefs, moves in advance to Maiduguri before Buhari visits on Thursday
The statement read: “Troops of 152 Task Force Battalion in conjunction with the Air Component of Operation HADIN KAI on Sunday, 27 June 2021 dealt a devastating blow on marauding Boko Haram (BHT) and Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) while attempting to infiltrate the Forward Operational Base at Bula Yobe in Borno State.
“The terrorists, who came mounted on gun trucks and several motorcycles attacked the location via an unsuspected crossing point but were met with a heavy volume of fire from the vigilant troops. The Land troops, in their usual dexterity swiftly and decisively engaged the terrorists, subsequently forcing them to retreat, having lost initiative.
“The troops sustained the firefight and successfully neutralised 12 terrorists, with several others fleeing with gunshot wounds. The troops gallantly captured one Gun Truck, one Self-Propelled Gun-9, one Dushika Gun, and one mounted QJC Machine Gun. Other items captured are one Light Machine Gun and five AK 47 rifles.
READ ALSO: Boko Haram releases humanitarian workers, pastor, others
“Sadly, during the encounter, two soldiers paid the supreme sacrifice, while five others sustained varying degrees of injury and have been evacuated by the Air component of OPHK to a medical facility, where they are currently receiving medical attention.
“The general area within FOB Bula Yobe is cool and calm under the control of troops of the battalion. Further exploitation by resilient troops is ongoing.
“The Chief of Army Staff, Major General Faruoq Yahaya has lauded the Land troops and the Air Component for their synergy and quick response, which is in tandem with the ongoing rejigging of the counter-terrorism operations in the North East. He charged the troops to maintain the tempo and vehemently hold their ground, to deny the terrorists freedom of action.”
Share this on WhatsApp