Share this on WhatsApp 
The Lagos State Police Command on Thursday paraded the student of the University of Lagos over the murder Usifo Ataga, late Chief Executive Officer of Super TV.
The suspect, Chidinma Ojukwu, a 300-level of Mass Communication student of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), paraded on Thursday at the Lagos State Police Command headquarters, Ikeja, claimed that the late CEO raped her in the hotel they both lodged.
The late CEO was found in a pool of blood with multiple wounds on his body as he was stabbed to death at a hotel in Lekki, Lagos.
 
The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, disclosed at media briefing that the suspect had confessed that she stabbed Ataga to death.
The CP added that the owner of the rented apartment where the murder took place has been arrested and is in police custody.
Odumosu stated that the bank account of Ataga has been blocked to prevent further withdrawals by those taking advantage of his untimely death.
The 21-year-old Chidinma was gathered to have accused the late CEO of raping her. She was said to have narrated that Ataga succeeded in the first attempt to rape her but that the unfortunate incident occurred as she resisted a second rape attempt. She admitted they were smoking together, and later had meals together on that day.
“We were in the lodge smoking. He was trying to make advances on me. I was tired and he became violent on it. I let him have his way.
“Towards afternoon, he ordered roofies. We took it together and ate food. He became high. I was still not happy with the first one (sex) that we had, so, I was staying on my own, smoking and drinking. He, too, was on his own. He came to me, and I told him I wasn’t happy with what he did.
“He was like, ‘Take my ATM and withdraw what you want’. He later became violent trying to get to me and I was resisting and defending myself. At some point, he hit my head on the wall and I also retaliated,” Chidinma had narrated.
Chidinma further narrated that the late CEO  was chasing her at some point in the kitchen where she took a knife and stabbed him in the neck; adding that Ataga followed her as she approached the door before she stabbed him twice on the neck side again.
“I threw the knife to the bed, and he was going for it, but I also went for it. He dragged the knife with me and it broke, and he fell on the floor,” the suspect had said.
Share this on WhatsApp