Share this on WhatsAppSince January 26 when the first major confrontation between Fulani criminals and residents of Igangan youth happened, the Ibarapa North town has never had peace.
It all climaxed around 12 midnight on June 6.
“At last notorious terrorists herdsmen are now waging war seriously against Igangan,” Taiwo Adeagbo told the National Daily in a WhatsApp chat.
Adeagbo is the secretary to the farmer unions across Ibarapaland, and he has been documenting the Fulani-herder crisis in Oyo for more than two decades.
According to him, there was a rain of bullet at that wee hour of the night.
“They killed, burnt motors. War is going on at Igangan now.”
It was difficult to ascertain the extent of the carnage and fatalities at that moment.
So around 5am, Adeagbo, aka Akowe Agbe, messaged his update.
‘Not less than five people killed by notorious terrorist herdsmen,” he told the National Daily.
“Also five people was equally killed among the notorious terrorist-herdsmen.”

On arson, he confirmed many cars were burnt, a truck of cassava flour bound for Ibadan was torched. Likewise a petrol station belonging to one Adio was set ablaze. Likewise the palace of the Asigangan.
“By day break, we shall know the accurate number of casualty from the two sides.”
Videos and pictures of the attack have been shared on WhatsApp.
There are dead bodies with blood stains and mutilated heads and other parts. A narrator calling for war said 15 locals were killed.
The National Daily gathered the police responded when the attackers struck. The Igangan hunters and youth also did, sending message across for back up in the effort to repel the terrorists.
Their efforts could have led to taking out five of the attackers.
There is no official statement yet from the police.
Igangan had thought they had peace at last after the January uprising spearheaded by jingoist Sunday Adeyemo aka Igboho.
He led the town’s youth to go and warn the Fulani community leaders at Igangan to leave if they would not stop the herdsmen violence.
The confrontation that ensued led to burning and displacement of Seriki Fulani Salihu Abdulkadri and his clan.
But many believe there would be reprisals.
Share this on WhatsApp