Share this on WhatsAppPresident Muhammadu Buhari, during a visit to Borno State on Thursday where he addressed officers of the Nigerian Armed Forces and other security agencies in Operation Hadin Kai at the Maimalari Cantonment, issued a new order to the military personnel  in the battle field to conclude the terrorism war with restoration of peace and reconstruction of the devastated war zone in northeast Nigeria.
The President commended the courage of the military personnel in fighting to defend the sovereignty of the Nigerian state and protect the territorial integrity of the country. He promised improved welfare of the officers as well as federal government’s support to families of soldiers killed in the war.
President Buhari had declared inter alia: “While acknowledging your collective efforts at decimating and degrading the terrorists and reaffirming the inviolable sovereignty of our nation, I also wish to extol your steadfastness and untiring efforts in the face of the difficulties you experience in the Theatres of Operation.
“We should not allow our adversaries the opportunity or breathing space to challenge or undermine our national interests and core values. “The defence and security agencies should be rest assured of the Federal Government’s unalloyed commitment to winning the battle against terror and criminality.
“Your collective efforts have resulted in the relative peace being enjoyed in the region today.
“Under my watch, the Armed Forces of Nigeria have been provided a firm strategy and clear sense of direction to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country.”
President Buhari further stated: “I want to seize this opportunity to put it on record that our nation will forever be indebted to you, for your patriotic commitment to the defence of our fatherland against insurgency and criminality.
“I, therefore, commend you and remember all the personnel who have paid the supreme sacrifice in ensuring that Nigeria remains an indivisible and secure entity.
“As I send my heartfelt condolences to the families of our fallen heroes and pray for the souls of the departed, I want to assure you that my administration will spare no effort or resources to ensure that the widows and children of our fallen heroes who paid the supreme price in defence of our beloved country are well cared for.”
President Buhari promised injured soldiers will be given the best medical attention towards their full recovery. He commended the military and security agencies for the synergy that translated into successes in restoring peace and order.
“I am particularly happy to note the increasing understanding and cooperation within the military, as well as the inter-agency cooperation in the fight against the terrorists and other criminal elements in the northeast.
“The outcome of this synergy is evidenced by the successes recorded in the ongoing Operation TURA TAKAIBANGO which has so far degraded the insurgents’ capabilities in the Timbuktu Triangle, Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad Region.
“I am, therefore, pleased to acknowledge that the military and other security agencies, including civilian stakeholders are adhering to the true spirit of Operation HADIN KAI which implies “jointness, synergy and cooperation”.
“By pooling together the collective resources and comparative advantages of the Armed Forces and other security agencies, we hope the enemy will now feel the ferocity of our firepower and the weight of our resolve,” President Buhari highlighted.
Assuring his administration’s commitment to developing a strategy for post-war reconstruction and peace-building, the President declared: “concerted efforts are being made to fast-track reconstruction and development programmes in the affected communities in the northeast.
“I am hopeful that this will lead to the speedy resettlement of displaced persons, as well as the restoration of bubbling community life as people return to their homes.
“Alongside investment in development and reconstruction, we will sustain our investment in the Armed Forces in a manner that balances the carrot and stick.”
Share this on WhatsApp