Share this on WhatsAppVice President Yemi Osinbajo may have at the weekend admitted the leadership failure in Nigeria, prescribing the kind of leaders the country needs. The consequences of leadership failure in Nigeria are visible to all stakeholders in the country; the threat to national security, echoes of disintegration, statistics of economic collapse, are all writ large in the contemporary democratic governance in Nigeria.
Accordingly, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo SAN, during a courtesy visit to the Oniru of Iruland, His Royal Majesty, Oba Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal, at the weekend in Lagos on the occasion of the monarch’s first coronation anniversary, advocated that “with the challenges affecting the country at this time, there is a need for proactive leaders who are prepared to bring Nigerians together.”
Prof. Osinbajo, commending the Oba for being a leader to people of diverse socio-ethnic backgrounds in his jurisdiction, declared: “our country needs all the leaders, the best leaders, the most proactive leaders, leaders prepared to bring the country together.
Some stakeholders who spoke to National Daily on the condition of anonymity were of the view that the VP clearly delineated Nigeria’s woes under the current government. Osinbajo had noted that the progress of an entity and the people is determined by the quality of leadership the person in power provides. The stakeholders had maintained that Nigerians can draw a clear note of the country’s leadership and the consequential crises from the observation of the vice president in Lagos.
“Lagos is a microcosm of Nigeria; everybody is here, if things work out well here, things will be okay in the country.”
Addressing the Oniru directly the VP observed: “I am sure your role here is that of someone who brings together communities not just Yorubas, but everybody. “And I can see that from your choice of chiefs, you have gone to other parts, and I think this is the attitude of great leaders.”
While praying for the Oba for a successful reign on the throne, the Vice President said the progress of his kingdom and its people will be determined by the quality of leadership he provides, which is a yardstick to measure the role of traditional rulers in the country.
The Vice President declared: “you should know that you are always in my prayers because I believe that your role is crucial not just for the development of this state, but for the whole country.
“Today, you cannot relegate traditional rulers because of the exposure and education of those who occupy that position.”
The Oniru of Iruland thanked the Vice President for his leadership and commitment to the progress of the country.
While pledging the support of the entire kingdom for the Federal Government, the Oba said the Vice President’s leadership is an example for other leaders across the country to follow, noting that “you are a leader whose direction we will continue to follow”.
His words: “the relationship between the Vice President and I had been very cordial. We belong to the same school of thought. He calls and advises me on several issues.
“I want to assure you, Mr. Vice President, that I will not disappoint you, I will ensure the progress of this kingdom and I will be just.”
Prof. Osinbajo in a media interaction, thereafter, said that the future of Iruland is bright with an Oniru like Oba Abdulwasiu.
“I have known the Oniru for quite some time now. He is somebody who I have a great deal of respect for, and I know that the future of this community is bright with an Oniru like himself.
“He is not just someone who is thoroughly educated but a visionary. He is someone who sees the future and is ready to ensure that he brings the future in a very short time,” the Vice President added.
Share this on WhatsApp