Share this on WhatsApp
 
President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed Friday to adopt a tougher stance against secessionists, including Nnamdi Kanu of the Indigenous People of Biafra and Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho.
He spoke during an interview with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), his second television interview in 24 hours, the first being with Arise TV.
“What I hope is to arrest them, try them and give them very bad publicity and then jail them, so that people will know that if you misbehave, you won’t get away with it,” he said.
“How can you go to a police station, kill the police (if they are there), loot the armoury and burn the place? What do you want to achieve? Go and open prison and allow criminals that have been tried through the legal system and let them loose on the society, and then how can the Government sit and allow this confusion to be perpetrated? No government can allow confusion.”
READ ALSO: 2021 Hajj: Saudi Arabia dashes hope of Nigerians
He also asked critics to be fair to his administration in assessing its performance.
He said: “They should reflect seriously on the time we came in, especially in relation to the North East and the Southsouth… where we are now. How much were we producing and how much was the past administration producing?
“When we came, somehow the militants in the South were unleashed on this administration. So I will like Nigerians to reflect on those in terms of resources and time.”
He dismissed the allegation that he was protecting bandits in the North by not threatening them the way he has been threatening those from other parts of the country.
His words: “They are been unfair. They should go and ask the governors of Sokoto, Katsina, Zamfara and find out how we have been deploying the police, military to deal with the bandits. We are not sparing anybody. Nigeria is vast, and there are a lot of forests.”
READ ALSO: Parallel protests rock Abuja
Speaking on the economy, President Buhari said he was not happy with the performance of the nation’s economy, adding that the low performance of the economy has been a thing of concern to him, adding that his administration was doing everything possible to improve the economy.
According to him, one of the steps taken so far is reaching out to the international community to allow their multinational firms to come to Nigeria and establish their presence by employing Nigerians through which the economy will pick up.
On corruption, President Buhari said it was high time special courts were established in the country, especially to try several corruption cases currently stuck in conventional courts.

Share this on WhatsApp