Share this on WhatsApp
The convener of #RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore, has said the arrested leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nmamdi Kanu will not get a fair hearing because Nigeria’s justice system has totally collapsed.
The former presidential candidate in the 2019 general election, who was at the Abuja Federal High Court on Tuesday where Kanu is re-arraigned for the continuation of his trial said those who should be in prison are the ones managing Nigeria.
“I learnt that Nnamdi Kanu was brought here, the federal High Court to be arraigned so I rushed down here to see that his rights are protected. I have been a victim of this kind of kangaroo system of justice before.
READ ALSO: Nnamdi Kanu’s re-arrest: Ohanaeze reveals next line of action
“Unfortunately upon arriving here, I heard he has been moved out to another location, probably the DSS. I am here to ensure he gets justice no matter what the allegations are; no matter the gravity of the allegations.
 “I know Nigeria’s justice system has collapsed and does not have respect for the rights of people who are accused of any kind of crime. In fact people who should be in detention, people who should be in jail are the ones managing Nigeria today. And I want to make it clear that it’s not a crime to ask for self determination; it’s not a crime for anyone to say that he is tired of a regime that doesn’t work for them.
“I am not in support of a breakup of Nigeria because I believe Nigeria can work with the right kind of leadership but I am not opposed to people asking for a breakup of Nigeria because they are not getting justice.
READ ALSO: IPOB leader Kanu arrested, now in custody after last outburst
“As long as there is no justice, people will continue to ask for all kinds of things that would give them a reprieve from this heavy burden that is called Nigeria.
“Now he has been taken to the DSS I hope he is given the kind of treatment he deserves; that he is not tortured. He will be here on the 26th and all of us will be back here.
 “…I will also be in court for the continuation of my own trial. But I am very interested in this case just like everyone in the world was interested in my own case.”
Share this on WhatsApp