Share this on WhatsAppThe Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) on Thursday  commissioned some birds/wildlife equipment in a bid to improve on safety of flight operations by effectively managing birds/wildlife hazards at the nation’s airports.
At an event held at FAAN’s headquarters annex in Lagos, the Managing Director of the Authority, Captain Rabiu Yadudu, represented by the Director of Commercial and Business Development, Alhaji Sadiku Rafindadi, stated that the equipment are some of the best you can get around, noting that the Authority procured them on the recommendation of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
The MD emphasized that the deployment of the equipment will usher in an era of safe flight operations, as incidents relating to birds strikes will now be a thing of the past.
The Authority’s Director of Airport Operations, Captain Muktar Muye, expressed delight at the arrival of the equipment. He stated that what was commissioned was not just the equipment but a complete package that also include the recommended storage facility, patrol vehicle and trained personnel in line with ICAOs Standards and Recommended Practices.
Some of the hitech equipment commissioned include 3 different models of bird scaring gas canons, Dayboxes for carrying pyrotechnics during Operations for safety, 15,000 rounds of 12G (heavy caliber bird scaring pyrotechnics), Hi-tech bird laser, Personal Protective Equipment for staff dealing with wildlife, Purpose built TYPE IV explosive storage magazine, brand new Hilux jeep for Runway wildlife patrol, among others.
There were practical demonstrations of the use of some of the equipment by the representative of the MD/CE and the Director of Airport Operations during the commissioning.
Stakeholders in attendance include the General Managers; Operations, Mrs. Olajumoke Oni; Environment, Mr. Nehemiah Auta; Special Duties, Mr. Kabiru Muhammed; Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Service, Mr. John Ekpe; Regional General Manager, Southwest, Mrs. Victoria Shin-Aba; representative of the GM Corporate Affairs, Mrs. Christabel Eromosele; Chief of Staff to MD/CE, Mr. Lawal Abdullahi, and others.
Share this on WhatsApp