Share this on WhatsApp

Governor of Kogi State Yahaya Bello has said the solution to Nigeria’s myriad of problems is dialogue, restating his commitment to the country’s unity.
The Chief Press Secretary to the Kogi State Governor, Mr Onogwu Muhammed, who disclosed this in a statement on Sunday, said Yahaya Bello made the submission in Umuahia, Abia when he paid a courtesy visit to Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia.
Bello said that he had always maintained the position that Nigeria could never divide irrespective of ploys by some people to stir problems using religious and ethnic divides.
He, however, noted that dialogue should be the only way to resolve whatever agitations by any group.
READ ALSO: Panic in FCT APC: Interim Committee appoints Gov Yahaya Bello to head 7-member pre-primary reconciliation panel
“We can have differences, skirmishes here and there which by the grace of God, we shall overcome them and Nigeria will remain together,” Bello said.
He also commended Ikpeazu for the warm reception offered to him and his entourage, saying the Abia governor had been a very good friend.
He said that even though he was not of the same party, region and faith with Governor Ikpeazu; that they had continued to enjoy mutual friendship and cordiality over the years, saying, that should be the right spirit all Nigerians must imbibe.
 “Yes, some sections of this country may be agitated due to one thing or the other but it is only on roundtable such agitations can be best resolved. I call on all my brothers that feel aggrieved about the state of this country to sit on the table and pass through the proper channels to resolve them,” Bello said.
Bello also told Ikpeazu that his administration had done a lot in tackling insecurity bedeviling the state which, according to him, had made Kogi one of the safest states in the country today.
READ ALSO: Yahaya Bello jettisons presidential ambition, backs Tinubu
He commended the contributions of Igbo community living in Kogi State to the economic and political developments of the state.
In his response, Ikpeazu described Bello as a very good friend and strong ally who had always called him to offer words of encouragement.
He commended the governor for his leadership style and the strategies he had put in place to tackle insecurity in Kogi State to make it an economic hub.
“Most importantly, I want to thank you for galvanising the people of Nigeria for a united nation. God has brought us together as a nation and we are stronger together as a nation.
“Even though there could be misunderstanding, what is needed is patience and tolerance, ” Ikpeazu said.

Share this on WhatsApp