Share this on WhatsAppWhile some might think that it is extra sad that has gone, it is actually amazing that Mama Florence Bamidele Makanjuola lasted long enough, a few months shy of her 100th birthday, a pinnacle that only few embrace.
According to the family, words are insufficient to capture the life and legacy of this formidable woman of virtue, character and breeding; the matriarch of the Familusi and Makanjuola families; proud daughter of Imesi-Ile who lived a life of impact and service – to her family, the professions of teaching and nursing, the Church and humanity at large.
Mama Florence Makanjuola who was laid to rest on June 8, 2021, was described as a pillar of strength to not only her family, but also to her community and to everyone who came across her.
READ ALSO: Lyrics war: Oniduro crooner, Yinka Alaseyori replies Tope Alabi
She was married to Dr. Olatunde Olaribigbe Makanjuola, and together they had five biological children, among whom are Professor Roger Makanjuola, Sister Bamidele, Dr. Yombo’s and Prof Kunbi, and fifteen grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren.
Florence Bamidele Makanjuola (nee Familusi) who was born on December 18, 1921, in Lagos, was the first child of Leah Oretipe Familusi (nee Fagbo) & Gilbert Ifajaiyeyomi Familusi, both of whom hailed from Imesi-Ile (Ile Akeegun family compound) in modern Osun State.
Oretipe was a renowned dressmaker and Alaso-oke , Gilbert a shoe designer and cobbler who produced Opekete Shoes; both lived at 12, Bamgbose Street, Lagos.
Mama Makanjuola studied Nursing and Midwifery in the United Kingdom between 1949 and 1950 at the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and proceeded to postgraduate studies in obstetrics and gynecology at Chelsea Hospital for Women in 1950.
She worked at the Mild May Mission Home Hospital in England and at the Women’s Hospital, Toronto when she and husband Tunde lived in Canada for a year in 1962.
Upon return from the UK, Florence served briefly as the Nursing Sister in Charge at the Adeoyo General Hospital, Ibadan, whilst her husband worked at University College Hospital (UCH) Ibadan.
To create flexibility to pursue her nursing career and also raise her children, Bamidele set up and managed the Makanjuola Nursing & Maternity Home situated behind their family home in Idi-Oro, Mushin Lagos.
She worked there as a nurse and midwife caring for many patients in the community for over two decades.
Mama Makanjuola was a strong believer and advocate for women’s rights and gender equality.
Her life example of hard work and the pursuit of educational attainment and financial independence demonstrated her personal conviction that women should contribute to the family finances and not rely solely on a man’s income.
In her lifetime, she was a devoted Christian. She had a special and constant relationship with God throughout her life. She was a very active member of Methodist Churches of Odi-Olowo and Palm Avenue and was Life Patron of Good Women Christian Society where her charitable work was lauded by church elders.
From her early years being brought up and preaching the word – serving as a lay preacher both in Nigeria and England – she remained steadfast in her belief in prayer as the solution to all problems and the word of Jesus as her only rock and salvation.
Bamidele fully lived and espoused these values, taking communion at every available opportunity. She especially loved to sing Christian hymns, one of her favorites being ‘Igbagbo mi duro lori Jesu’ or ‘My Faith Rests on Jesus’. She continued to find refuge in prayer, psalms, praise and worship, singing hymns until her last moments.
Share this on WhatsApp