Share this on WhatsApp

The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has urged Biafra agitators to see beyond their noses by participating in the forthcoming voter registration exercise in order to ensure good representation at the federal level.
In a statement issued by its General Secretary, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, the group said it is important for every Igbo person to take part in the exercise in order to increase the representation of the nationality in government.
The group also urged MASSOB, IPOB members to be part of the upcoming voters screening exercise, saying that it will likely increase the chances of a future referendum, as “it is only those with voter cards that will participate in the future referendum”.
The statement reads: “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide calls on President Muhammadu Buhari to strengthen Nigeria’s democracy by ensuring that there are new electoral laws that will be the bequest of his administration amidst unresolved insecurity challenges.
READ ALSO: Crack in Buhari’s APC camp
“Ndigbo residing in the 36 states of the country must know the importance of the upcoming voter’s registration exercise and must sacrifice their time and participate in others to increase our numeric stamina through Igbo’s tremendous spread in 774 local government areas for 2023 and to sterilise southeastern Nigeria.
“We are not going to be discouraged by the manipulation of INEC’s allotment of the least number of polling units to the South-East but capitalise on the Igbo presence in every 774 local government areas of Nigeria for electoral pursuits.
“Biafra Agitators, especially IPOB and MASSOB must see beyond their noses and mobilise our people for this voter registration exercise as there might be a future referendum, and it is only those with voter cards that will participate in the future referendum.
“This is the most crucial time for Ndigbo to get it right, especially we will explore the window of opportunity to support the idea of diaspora voter registrations and early voting being canvassed recently by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
“Diaspora voting privileges must be a focal point of the National Diaspora Commission as it will be a great legacy project that will outlast Buhari’s government. Nigerians abroad have the right to take part in this electoral process, as Foreign Missions and Embassies must serve as centres for online voters’ enrolment.
READ ALSO: Avengers return to creeks, vow to cripple Nigerian economy
“This is the best time for the Ndigbo, including the youths that had never taken part in the voting exercise to register for the first time, especially those that would be 18 years old this year. And our target Igbo population is 18-29 years old (those Big Brother Naija zealous youths).
“We are warning that registration of underage children in the North should be resisted by INEC.”
Share this on WhatsApp