Share this on WhatsAppA woman, Blessing Ebuneku Agoro, aged 35 years has landed in trouble for selling her two daughters at the cost of N300,000 while her husband was on travel, away from home. The two biological daughters of the woman were identified to be aged four and two years. The Police receiving report from the woman’s husband, Oluwaseyi Agoro, apprehended the woman and commenced thorough investigation immediately.
Ebuneku Agoro, resident in Ogun State, had sold the two daughters to a couple in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, for ₦300,000, that is N150,000 each.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), of the Ogun State Police Command, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement on Sunday, disclosed that the police apprehended the suspect after her husband, Oluwaseyi Agoro, lodged a complaint at the Redeemed Camp Divisional Headquarters about his missing daughters while he was on a travel.
According to the police, the husband of the woman had reported that he traveled for some time, and returning on June 8, his two daughters were nowhere to be found.
Oluwaseyi Agoro further complained that his wife, Ebuneku Agoro, cannot tell him the whereabouts of the children. He was, therefore, forced to report the wife to the police for investigation.
DSP Oyeyemi disclosed that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of the Redeemed Camp Division, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Alabi Akinjide, on receiving the complaint, deployed detectives from the Division to arrest Blessing Ebuneku Agoro, who had been with the camp’s Code of Conduct Department.
According to DSP Oyeyemi: “On interrogation, the suspect explained to the police that, her husband left home for the past two years, and while he was away, she found it difficult to cater for the two children and two other children she had with another man.
“She stated further that while she was contemplating on what to do, one Kolawole Imoleayo introduced her to a couple in Port Harcourt who are in dire need of children, and she sold the two daughters to the couple at the rate of ₦300,000.
“Her confession led to the arrest of the said intermediary, Kolawole Imoleayo. They are now both assisting the police in their investigation.”
It was gathered that the Ogun State Commissioner of Police, CP Edward Ajogun, has directed the transfer of the suspects to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation.
The CP further ordered that the children must be rescued and brought back to their parents as soon as possible.
Until the police conclude their investigation, it is not certain if the man had abandoned the woman or there was quarrel between them, or they are still in marriage.
Share this on WhatsApp