Share this on WhatsAppPresident Muhammadu Buhari, receiving briefing from the Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu, on Tuesday, noted that the service chiefs of the Nigerian military have been changed, including the Inspector General of Police, declaring that the federal government will demand security from them. The president, accordingly, cautioned those plotting to destroy Nigeria that they will soon receive the shock of their lives.
President Buhari condemned attacks on INEC facilities across the country, threatening that the federal government has given the perpetrators enough time to refrain from their anti-government behaviours.
President Buhari in a statement by his Media Adviser, Femi Adesina, declared; “I receive daily security reports on the attacks, and it is very clear that those behind them want this administration to fail.
“Insecurity in Nigeria is now mentioned all over the world. All the people who want power, whoever they are, you wonder what they really want. Whoever wants the destruction of the system will soon have the shock of their lives. We’ve given them enough time.”
He noted that the citizens misbehaving in certain parts of the country were obviously too young to know the travails and loss of lives that occurred during the 30 months of Nigerian Civil War. He emphasized the need to adhere to constitutional processes in making demands on the government or having acquired political power.
Buhari was cited to have said: “Majority of the people believed me, and the election proved it.
“Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand. We are going to be very hard sooner than later.”
Noting that the Service Chiefs and the Inspector-General of Police have been changed to imp[rove the security of the country, the President had declared: , “and we will demand security from them.”
President Buhari assured the INEC Chairman of support to overcome the challenges that may arise from the dangers posed to future elections by the burning of INEC facilities. He assured that he would give the electoral commission all it needs to perform its duties, “so that no one would say we don’t want to go, or that we want a third term. There will be no excuse for failure. We’ll meet all INEC’s demands.”
The INEC Chairman had disclosed that  there have been 42 cases of attacks on INEC offices across the country since the 2019 General Election.
“The 42 incidents so far occurred in 14 states of the Federation for a variety of reasons….
“Most of the attacks happened in the last seven months, and they are unrelated to protest against previous elections.
“From the pattern and frequency of the most recent attacks, they appear to be targeted at future elections. The intention is to incapacitate the Commission, undermine the nation’s democracy and precipitate a national crisis,” Prof. Mahmood said.
Share this on WhatsApp