Share this on WhatsAppThe news of Cristiano Ronaldo snubbing Coca Cola for a bottle of water has dominated the media space.
The Portuguese national football team captain ahead of his country’s Euro 2020 group-stage clash against Hungary, spotted the two bottles of carbonated drinks and immediately moved them away.
The 4-time Ballon d’Or award winner demonstrated his preference over Coca Cola when he went ahead to take out a bottle of water and said to the cameras: “Agua! (Water!)”.
Meanwhile, the real reason for Ronaldo’s action has emerged. It has been revealed that the former Manchester United forward has previously spoken out about his dislike of sugary soft drinks.
National Daily can relate with the above claim owing to the manner the 36-year-old pays attention to his body. Ronaldo’s remarkable physical condition for his age could be as a direct result of how he famously treats his body like a temple with serious attention to what he consumes.
The 2020/2021 Serie A top goal scorer has not paid attention to what he consumes, but he has extended same to his eldest son Cristiano Ronaldo Jr by way of attempting to restrain him consuming such products.
“I’m hard with him sometimes because he drinks Coca-Cola and Fanta sometimes and I’m p***** with him,” Ronaldo admitted.
“I fight with him when he eats chips and fries and everything, he knows I don’t like it.”
However, report reaching National Daily by the Spanish outlet Marca reveals that Ronaldo’s gesture has reportedly had a huge negative impact on Coca-Cola as a brand.
Marca has reported that the share price of the company before and after the Portuguese icon’s decision to move the bottles to one side has led to billions of dollars in losses for the company.
The Spanish publication further claimed that Coca-Cola went from being worth $242 billion to $238 billion – a “brutal 1.6% drop” for the company on the stock market.
Coca-Cola’s shares were close to 56.10 dollars when the stock market opened at 3pm in Europe.
But 30 minutes later, after Ronaldo and Fernando Santos attended the press conference room at the Puskas Ferenc Stadium in Budapest, stocks reportedly nose-dived to a low of $ 55.22 per share.
Meanwhile, neither Coca Cola nor UEFA is yet to comment on the gesture, although National Daily further gathered from the report by Daily Mail that the two organisations are ‘unlikely to be happy’ that one of the world’s most influential sports stars has shown such disdain towards Coca-Cola, who have been a partner of the European Championships since 1988.
Share this on WhatsApp