Share this on WhatsAppAfrican Women Lawyers Association of Nigeria (AWLAN) on Wednesday, described as shameful and inhumane, the recent reported case of child trafficking by Mrs Blessing Ebuneku-Agoro, a housewife in Ogun.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 35 – year old Ebuneku-Agoro was recently arrested by men of the Ogun Police Command, for allegedly selling her two daughters for N300, 000.
The suspect had claimed to be under financial difficulties following alleged disappearance of the father of her girls, who she also alleged abandoned them for two years.
Meanwhile, the father of the children had reappeared and lodged a complaint at Ogun police command, when he discovered his children were missing.
This led to the arrest and investigation of the woman by the police.
Reacting, Ogun coordinator of AWLAN, Mrs Ebere Obiora, said that the association would continue to monitor the case, to ensure that the children were returned and culprits brought to book.
“AWLA Ogun chapter condemns the act of Blessing Ebuneku-Agoro, for engaging in the practice of child trafficking and endangering the lives of the female children.
“It was reported this week that this mother of two sold her two children for some amount of money.
“Her claim of facing financial hardships can never be sufficient reason to perpetuate such acts of wickedness on her own children.
“The rights of children as enshrined in the enabling law, the Child Rights Act, provides for the inalienable rights of children and so, it is high time individuals began to digest the provisions of this legislation.
“What manner of hardship can prompt a mother who bore her kids under painful circumstances, to trade them for monetary gains?
“This is total wickedness and most unacceptable in our society; such offenders must be deterred.
“We in AWLA shall do our best to follow up the case and ensure that all the persons involved in the perpetration of this nefarious act are brought to book; and more importantly, to trace and recover children,” Obiora said.
According to her, AWLA is working towards a safer society for all children, and every parent has a vital role to play in the crusade as an indispensable stakeholder.
 
Share this on WhatsApp