Share this on WhatsAppA combined team of the Nigerian Army and the Nigeria Air Force, operating under Sector 2 Joint Task Force Northeast Operation HADIN KAI on Sunday, took the insecurity battle to the terrorists in the northeast Nigeria and inflicted heavy casualty on the Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) fighters, located to be camping around Wartek in Lambom Forest of Borno State.
The Director Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, in a statement on Monday, noted that acting on credible intelligence, the troops, with close air support from the Nigerian Air Task Force, swiftly carried out a simultaneous land and air offensive, penetrating deep into Lambom Forest in Borno State.
Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu stated that “the troops overran the position of the terrorists with a heavy volume of fire from both land and air, killing over 20 insurgents.”
The Director Army Public Relations further said that the troops captured and recovered heavy fire weapons and arms, including three Anti-Aircraft guns, three AK 47 rifles, and two gun trucks, in addition to two other gun trucks destroyed by the troops.
Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu said that the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Major General Faruk Yahaya, has congratulated the troops for the successful operations.
Major General Faruk Yahaya encouraged the troops to sustain the ongoing offensive under Operation HADIN KAI until the insurgents are completely surmounted.
The Chief of Army Staff reaffirmed the commitment of the Nigerian Army under his leadership to end the terrorism and guerilla warfare in northeast Nigeria.
Brigadier General Nwachukwu added that in a similar vein, troops of the Joint Task Force North East Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK) deployed at the Forward Operational Base (FOB) of 152 Battalion, Kumshe in Borno State, had on Sunday, foiled an attempted attack by Boko Haram terrorists.
The terrorists, he said, mounted on four gun trucks and several motorcycles attempted to infiltrate and attack the camp through the northern part of the troops’ deployment but were met with fierce fire by the highly alert troops, resulting in the instant killing of six terrorists.
The Director Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, disclosed that the troops, who remained dogged and sustained heavy gunfire on the terrorists during the encounter, routed and forced the terrorists to flee in total disarray, leading to the capture of six AK 47 Rifles, one handheld grenade, assorted drugs, and other first aid items.
The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Major General Faruk Yahaya, was recalled having been at the Theatre Headquarters Joint Task Force North East Operation HADIN KAI (OPHK) on his maiden operational visit to the Theatre from 16-19 June to assess the operational and welfare state of the troops.
The COAS, visiting the 7 Division Hospital and University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH) on Friday to commiserate with the sick and wounded soldiers in action, who were recuperating at the medical facilities, assured troops of adequate medical care and support in the counter-insurgency operations in the northeast.
Major General Faruk Yahaya, while at the hospital, interacted with the soldiers, reassuring that their medical care is of utmost importance to him, including their welfare. He urged them not to be discouraged, noting that the nation is behind them.
Share this on WhatsApp