Share this on WhatsApp 
A Niger Delta militant leader, High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, popularly known as Tompolo, The Ibe-Ebidouwei of Ijaw Nation, at the weekend withdrew the seven-day ultimatum he issued President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, last Monday to inaugurate the substantive board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) or face the fireworks of the militants in the Niger Delta which could cripple the Nigerian economy. Tompolo withdrew the ultimatum after consultations between the Minister and reputable Niger Delta leaders but insisted that the NDDC board be constituted before the end of June 2021 as the Niger Delta Minister promised during the consultations.
 
Tompolo in a statement referenced “President Muhammadu Buhari and Senator Godswill Akpabio should as a matter of urgency constitute the substantive Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC)”, indicated his reluctant acceptance of the agreements reached at the consultation meetings of the Niger Delta leaders with Akpabio. He pointed put that he would not want to do anything that would disrupt the fragile peace in the Niger Delta.
While temporarily accepting the outcome of the consultative meeting with the minister, Tompolo maintained that the Minister must comply and fulfill his promise to commence the process of constituting the NDDC board immediately.
The militant leader recalled the ultimatum he issued on Monday which culminated into consultation meetings involving highly placed individuals and organizations from the Niger Delta region, including the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio.
“I issued a seven-day ultimatum on the above subject matter on Monday May 31, 2021. There were a lot of concerns expressed by Nigerians on this matter within this period, hence, machinery was put in place for consultations among Nigerians, especially, from highly placed individuals and organizations from the Niger Delta region, including the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio.
“As I expressed in my press statement of Monday May 31st, 2021, I came into this matter because of love for the region and Nigeria. I make bold to say that I cannot be compromised by money and other material things.
“However, the only thing one can do for Nigeria in this trying time, where all the six geopolitical zones are in turmoil, is to pray to God for peace and tranquility, particularly, for the economic hub of the country, the Niger Delta region.
“Therefore, I welcomed the consultative meeting of our revered Traditional rulers from the region, Delta State Government, the Ijaw National Congress (INC) led by its President, Professor Benjamin Okaba; leaders from the Itsekiri, Urhobo, Isoko, Ndokwa and other Nationalities with the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Akpabio, in attendance, at the traditional headquarters of Gbaramatu Kingdom, Oporoza town on Thursday June 3rd, 2021,” Tompolo highlighted.
He noted that the outcome of the meeting has been made known to the public by the Minister.
“He promised profusely to start the process of the constitution and inauguration of the substantive board of the NDDC immediately (from Friday June 4th, 2021), and that he should be allowed to drive the process to an end on or before the end of June 2021,” Tompolo noted.
He, therefore, declared inter alia: “As it stands now, I have accepted the outcome of the meeting reluctantly. It is pertinent to state at this juncture that, I do not want anything to disrupt the relative peace we are enjoying in the region. It was on this premise that I accepted the outcome of the meeting.
“The ultimate goal in this issue, is for the Minister to abide by the promise he has made to start the process of constituting the NDDC board now. Government shenanigans must be put away in this matter as constituting the NDDC board is very dear to the heart of the people of the region.”
Tompolo, thereafter, thanked all the revered traditional rulers in the zone for the fatherly role they played in the matter, particularly,  the grand leader of the Ijaw Nation and elder statesman, Chief E. K Clark, for his concern and intervention in the matter; the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, and his deputy, Barrister Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, for their intervention; including President of the Ijaw National Congress, Professor Benjamin Okaba; Commander of Operation Delta Safe, Rare Admiral A. Hassan; as well as leaders of the various Ethnic Nationalities for their solidarity, Youths of all the Ethnic Nationalities from the region, Women groups and others.
He affirmed that the needful be done to develop the Niger Delta region as seen in advanced climes.
 
Share this on WhatsApp