Share this on WhatsAppDespite records of global improvement on coronavirus pandemic in several countries, Qatar, host of the 2022 World Cup, is still fretting over spread of COIVD-19 during the world cup tournament in 2022. While the World health organization (WHO), acknowledged that figures of deaths from coronavirus are dropping, including new cases, Qatar is negotiating the procurement of one million COVID-19 vaccines to inoculate football fans entering the country for the 2022 World Cup.
The government of Qatar also restricted vis permit to only fully Covid-19 vaccinated fans to watch 2022 World Cup.
Qatar Prime Minister, Sheikh Khalid bin Khalifa bin Abdulaziz Al Thani, though acknowledged that most countries have been vaccinating their citizens, he insisted that Qatar will still take additional measures to ensure a successful event.
The Prime Minister also noted the statement of the FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, in February that the World Cup hosted in Qatar between November 21 and December 18, 2022, all matches will be played in full stadia. The host country was, therefore, compelled to negotiate the procurement of one million coronavirus vaccine doses to augment unexpected deficiency from any country sending fans to the world cup in Qatar.
According to the Qatar Prime Minister, Sheikh Khalid bin Khalifa bin Abdulaziz Al Thani, “We are currently negotiating with a company to provide one million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in order to immunise and vaccinate some of those coming to Qatar.”
The authorities had insisted that they anticipate to host a coronavirus-free World Cup, and intend to provide vaccines to fans not immunized before attending the tournament.
It was indicated that Qatar had administered about 2.8 million doses of Pfizer and Moderna coronavirus vaccines on its citizens and residents.
The Prime Minister, Sheikh Khalid, set the 2021 Arab Cup, hosted by Doha, in December, as parameter for Qatar to evaluate its readiness for the World Cup.
 
Share this on WhatsApp