Share this on WhatsAppReal Madrid have on Wednesday confirmed that their captain Sergio Ramos will be departing Santiago Bernabeu after 16 years which was subsequently and tearfully confirmed by the former Sevilla defender on Thursday during his press conference.
The most significant aspect of Ramos press conference was when the Spain captain burst into tears as he bid farewell to Real Madrid.
It has however emerged that the reason that Ramos emotionally broke down in tears was his feeling of disappointment by Madrid.
The 35-year-old defender made his feelings known with a parting shot when he said that he was surprised that Madrid decided to withdraw the one-year contract they initially offered him with the claim that it had expired.
National Daily understands that Ramos, who made 671 appearances for Real and scored 101 goals including netting in two Champions League finals, ran down his contract with the Santiago Bernabeu club while stalling on the agreement to agree a new deal with the club.
“The first thing I want to say is that I never wanted to leave. I wanted to stay here,” Ramos said in a press conference.
The Spaniard said he was offered a one-year contract on a 10 per cent reduction to his previous salary but was holding out for a two-year deal “so my family could have continuity and tranquillity”, only to find out the previous offer had been withdrawn.
“I said ‘okay’ but they told me the offer that was on the table had expired. I respect their decision but it was a surprise,” he said.
“I didn’t realise the offer had an expiry date. There will be many opinions about me but I’d prefer people to know the full story first and the president and club know it wasn’t about money, they offered me one year and I wanted two.”
However, Ramos, 35, was able to acknowledge that “there were some calls” when he entered the final six months of his contract in January but stressed “leaving Real Madrid was never on my mind”.
Meanwhile, he added: “Life goes on, an era has finished and a new one is starting. Now is not the moment to talk about other clubs but we’ll find the right one for me.”
Ramos, who dismissed the suggestions of an emotional return to his boyhood club Sevilla could finally be heading abroad for the first time in his club carrer especially when considering his high salary. He is touted to either make a move to Paris Saint-Germain in Ligue 1 or the Premier League.
“Sevilla is another club close to my heart and I had a marvellous time there but today I’m not contemplating that option and neither are they,” he said.
Ramos also laughed off a question on whether he could join Real’s eternal rivals Barcelona, saying “it’s a resounding no”.
Meanwhile, club president Florentino Perez, who brought Ramos to Real from Sevilla in 2005 for 27 million euros, a then-record fee for a Spanish defender, thanked the player for “making Real Madrid’s legend even greater and ensuring it is the most admired club in the world”.
“It’s not an easy day because you’ve been really special to me and you and I have lived and suffered through historic moments for Real Madrid,” Perez added.
“I wish you all the best and want you to know this will always be your home, a legend like you will always be one of this club’s great ambassadors.”
Share this on WhatsApp