Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB) on Wednesday stressed the need for early mentorship of budding professionals in the industry to eliminate quackery from its ranks.
The NOIB members led by its Lagos Branch Chairman, Mr Sunday Wusu made the remarks during the association’s visit to Immaculate Heart Comprehensive Junior High School, Maryland, Lagos for career talk tagged ‘Catch Them Young Programme’.
Wusu said that the programme was part of the institute’s weeklong activities to commemorate the 2021 Builders’ Day conference on March 13.
He said the event was organised in conjunction with the Ministry of Education to encourage young students to pursue career paths in building and to expose them to the rudiments of  ethical codes of practice and building regulations.
He said March 13 was chosen for the builders conference in commemoration of the collapse of a five-storied residential building at 63, Massey Street, Ita-Faaji, Lagos Island in 2019, killing over 20 pupils.
Wusu explained to the students the benefits of building the right way, and the subjects required for those aspiring to become professional builders.
“You are our future leaders, our future generation and we need to let you know,”he said.
He told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that early mentorship to change their orientation towards upholding good building ethics was vital to the enthronement of excellence in the profession.
Also, Mr Emmanuel Aladeloba, Head of Department, Building, Yaba College of Technology (Yaba Tech), said that the housing deficit currently stands at 17 million which needed professionals to fill the vacuum to bridge the shelter gap.
Aladeloba while delivering his lecture, told the students the subjects that they would need, in order to deepen their knowledge and to take advantage of the vast opportunities available for talented builders.
He explained the important roles of builders who coordinated their projects with materials in right quantities, as well as human resources on site to ensure durable construction with good structural integrity.
Aladeloba said that an engineer designs buildings, but the builder “is a realist to actualise the real construction” by properly cordinating and managing all the other resources.
” It is the work of a builder to ensure a design comes to reality and we can occupy it, take example from this hall we are in right now.
“It is a builder that knows the science and technology of construction, all the resources in the built environment are put together by the builder because the builder is taught how to make the other five resources work. The Labour, materials, machines, methods and all the others” he said.
In his remarks, Mr Bayo Adefuye Permanent Board Member, Special Projects, Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LASUBEB), who represented the LASUBEB Chairman, Mr Wahab Alawiye-King, urged students to follow their passion in choosing career paths that would be beneficial to them.
 
He encouraged the students to strive to be good ambassadors to make their parents and nation proud.
“Building is a good career. We will always need builders because we will always need buildings.
” Whatever profession you choose make sure it is the one your heart is set on. Choose what you like doing so that your work would look like play. Choose a career you are comfortable with in line with your passion,”he said.
Earlier, Mrs Adelotun Ogunbiyi, Principal, Immaculate Heart Comprehensive Junior High School, Maryland, advised students on the need to take the career talk serious in order to make the right future choices.
Other speakers took turns to educate the children on the advantages of choosing career paths in building to correct the perceived ills in the industry.
However, the students had mixed reactions of either wanting to become builders, or advocated for quality construction while choosing other professions.
Miss Aishat Abdulrashed, a JSS3 student told NAN she had learnt new things that changed her perception, adding that, “I want to be a good builder that would build right in future”.
On the other hand, Mr Ndishika Praise another JSS3 student said he learnt what it meant to be a good builder, but would not want to be a builder.
“I want to be an artist but I will advise builders in future to be good,”he added.
Share this on WhatsApp