Share this on WhatsApp

 


Holders Bayern Munich cruised into the UEFA Champions League quarter-finals for the ninth time in the last 10 seasons.
This was after beating Lazio 2-1 at the Allianz Arena on Wednesday to secure a 6-2 aggregate victory.
Leading 4-1 from the first leg in Rome, Robert Lewandowski opened the scoring for Bayern Munich from the penalty kick spot in the 33rd minute.
It was his 39th goal of the season in all competitions.
The German champions took their foot off the gas before substitute Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting, having replaced Lewandowski, added the second goal in the 73rd minute.
Marco Parolo headed a late consolation for Lazio.
Bayern Munich joined fellow German side Borussia Dortmund in the last eight.
Lazio’s exit means no Italian team will compete in the Champions League quarter-finals, with Juventus and Atalanta having also exited at the last-16 stage.
Alexander Nuebel replaced the ill Manuel Neuer in goal for Bayern Munich.
But, with Lazio coach Simone Inzaghi surprisingly leaving the club’s top goalscorer Ciro Immobile out, the stand-in goalkeeper was rarely tested.
Although Lazio were facing a near-impossible task, Bayern Munich still named a strong starting side.
No side in European Cup history has progressed from a knockout tie after losing the first leg by three or more goals at home.
A clumsy challenge from Vedat Muriqi on Leon Goretzka gifted Bayern Munich the penalty kick which Lewandowski converted, his fifth Champions League goal of the season.
The rest of the match was then a cruise for the Bundesliga leaders.
Lewandowski went within inches of his 40th of the season in the second half before being withdrawn.
Choupo-Moting found the net two minutes after coming on, ensuring Bayern Munich made it 19 games unbeaten in the UEFA Champions League.
Parolo did give Lazio something to take back to Italy in the 82nd minute when he headed home from Andreas Pereira’s free kick.
But Bayern Munich never looked in any danger of making a surprise exit.
 
Share this on WhatsApp