Share this on WhatsApp
 


Foreign players in the French League will not need to be quarantined after returning from FIFA World Cup play-off duty, the French sports ministry has ruled.
This follows a change in policy by the Ministry over imposing quarantine restrictions on foreign players in Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 returning from FIFA World Cup qualifiers outside the European Union (EU).
“We confirm that international players returning from official competitions outside the EU with their national team, whether French or foreign, are exempt from the seven-day waiting period as long as they comply with a strict sanitary and medical protocol (bubble + daily PCR test on their return to their club),” the Sports Ministry said, according to the FIFA media outlet.
Earlier this week, the French league said that Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 clubs “would not make available for selection the foreign players summoned for matches outside the EU/EEA zone during the next international period in March”.
FIFA said last month that clubs were not expected to release players during the international window if there is a “mandatory period of quarantine or self-isolation of at least five days upon arrival” in the country where the club is located or the country where the match is taking place.
But on 19 March, FIFA president Gianni Infantino urged clubs to let their players leave for international duty.
“We are living in a very difficult situation, especially but not only in Europe with regard to the COVID-19,” Infantino said following the latest FIFA Council meeting.
“Health has to remain a priority which is why we relaxed our rules a bit.
“(But) obviously we would like the March games to go ahead with the best possible squads.
“We call on all parties to understand that national team football is very important for the vast majority of countries round the world,” Infantino said.
The South American Football Confederation called off its qualification matches planned for the upcoming window over player availability issues.
Qualifiers in the Asian region have also been postponed due to COVID-19.
Share this on WhatsApp