Share this on WhatsApp






By Kingsley Chukwuka

 
Following a 72-hour ultimatum issued by the Arewa Youth Assembly (AYA) for people of Yoruba ethnic group to leave the 19 northern States and the FCT, the National Youth Leader, Congress of Northern Nigeria Christians (CNNC), on Monday cautioned the Arewa Youth President, Yerima Shetima, calling him a drug addict.

The CNNC National Youth Leader, Engr Daniel Kadzai, also called on the northern leaders to caution their youths, warning them of the grave consequences of such ultimatum.

“I am saddened reading stuffs from the drug addict called Yerima Shetima, the self acclaimed Arewa Youths President”, Kadzai roared

Meanwhile, the ultimatum by the AYA was in response to a declaration last Wednesday by Yoruba activist, Sunday Igboho, who advised Yoruba indigenes that were residing in the northern part of the country to return home.
 
However, Igboho, during his declaration didn’t ask the northerners living in the South-West to leave the region but merely stated that the Yoruba no longer wished to be part of Nigeria given grave injustice done to the region by the Nigerian government.


Responding, Kadzai said it is unfortunate that innocent citizens take Shetima’s empty threats serious, saying that Shitima uses the threat to swindle innocent southern political class who always host him in five star hotels.

“What’s wrong with our southern brothers and sisters?

“Everytime Arewa Youths: Shettima Yerima is lone ranger intimidating his victims whenever he is broke or sponsored to do so by the cabals.

“Who is Shetima representing, they think Arewa is for the Fulani & Hausa alone? We have over two hundred and fifty (250) Ethnic groups in Northern Nigeria.

“Who voted him into that position? Who are his executive committee members? When was the last time Arewa Youths held a Congress and where?” he queried.

Kadzai said he is just quiet not for lack of capacity or capability, but that he is only waiting for a due season!

“I am more an authentic Northerner ‘Arewa’ than Shetima. I am from the core north ‘Arewa’ born and brough up among the Hausas, Fulanis and dozens of other ethnic group. I speak Hausa and Fulfulde.

“We have the Northen Arewa Christians and Muslims. Who gave Shetima the right to open his mouth to threaten other citizens of Nigeria amidst the worsening insecurity caused by same Shetima’s kinsmen.

“I am the immediate past National President of the Youth Wing of the Christians Association of Nigeria and I Presided over 30 million Christian Youth in Nigeria. I was duly elected, certified and commissioned to speak and represent (YOWICAN).

“Shetima has never called a meeting of the Arewa Youths because I am very much in touch with other Ethnic Youth Leaders from the north”.

The CNNC Youth leader said his current position captures the 19 northern States and Abuja with over 20 million Christian Youths from different ethnic groups.

“So who is Shetima, where is his official address as Arewa Youth President?

“Please no Nigerian especially southerners should panic over statements from Shetima who’s likely acting under high influence of cocaine and other deadly intoxicants.

“It is time to count our teeth with our tongue. Southerners should contact us for any response to those barbarians! Nobody is superior; north or south”, Kadzai said.










Share this on WhatsApp