Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Nigeria Police has successfully busted a violent criminal network, blocking the arms, drugs supply chain.
In the security operations, the Nigeria Police Force arrested 50 criminal suspects who are members of various notorious criminal gangs and networks across the country. The Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, CP Frank Mba, in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, indicated that the arrests, which were carried out by operatives of the Intelligence Response Team and the Special Tactical Squad of the Force attached to the Operation Puff Adder II, were outcomes of successful follow-up on cases bordering on kidnapping, armed robbery, banditry, unlawful possession of firearms, amongst others.
CP Mba disclosed that a total of 10 sophisticated prohibited firearms, 2,496 AK47 live ammunition, 10 live cartridges, Cartons of Tramadol Drugs worth over N3 million, bags of weed suspected to be Indian hemp, two laptop computers, eight mobile phones, were recovered from the suspects in the operations.   
According to Mba, some of the notable cases and operations that led to the arrests and recoveries include the following:
Case 1: Interception and arrest of four members of criminal syndicate who are major ammunition suppliers to bandits in Kaduna State –
The FPRO highlighted that Operatives of the Special Tactical Squad attached to the Operation Puff Adder II while on confidence building patrol along Kachia – Kaduna Highway on 28th February 2021, intercepted one Danjuma Dachung, a 30yrs native of Ryom, Plateau State and one other, Markus Danladi, in Kachia, Kaduna State conveying 1,565 AK47 ammunition in a Volkswagen, Golf 3 Car. Investigations by the Police team revealed that the suspects are members of a major ammunition supply syndicate that supplies ammunition from Jos to bandits in their various camps/hideouts in forests in Kaduna State. Further investigations led to the arrest of one Suleiman Tukur, 55yrs old and his son, Shuaibu Suleiman, 18yrs on 9th March 2021 who are relatives of a notorious gang leader who was to receive the ammunition conveyed by Danjuma Dachung and Markus Danladi. Two Hundred and Thirty-One (231) AK47 live ammunition were recovered by the Police team at their residence in Karabi, Kaduna State.
CASE 2: Arrest of two suspects for illegal possession of prohibited firearms, armed robbery, and sale of firearms to notorious criminals in the FCT and environs –
The Police team also arrested two suspects, Daniel Baba, 28yrs and one Andrew Gbagi, 30yrs both from Kwali Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory. The suspects were arrested at the point of brokering a gun sales deal in the Kwali area of the FCT.
Investigations revealed that the suspects specialize in selling all calibre of firearms to armed robbers and kidnappers in the FCT and its environs. They also carryout armed robbery operations in Paiko, Dobbi, Kwali, Gwagwalada and Abaji communities in the FCT. Investigation is being intensified to locate their armoury, sponsors, and other members of the gang now at large.
CASE 3: Arrest of notorious kidnappers responsible for the recent kidnapping of pharm. Alhaji Ibrahimaa in Jos and several other armed robberies and kidnappings across Plateau, Bauchi and Nasarawa States
CP Mba highlighted that sequel to the kidnapping of Alhaji Ibrahimaa, a Pharmacist, residing in Barikin Ladi, Plateau State, and his subsequent release after paying a ransom, operatives of the FIB-IRT succeeded in arresting four suspects, including, the mastermind of the kidnap operation. The suspects arrested are Abbas Adamu, 23yrs of Barikin Ladi, Plateau State, Ahmad Mohammed A.K.A Soja, 22yrs native of Magama Gumau, Ibrahim Jilde, 36yrs native of Toro LGA Bauchi and Saleh Idris, 20yrs, native of Magama Gumau in Bauchi.
Investigations by the Police team revealed that the suspects were responsible for the kidnap of one DSS operative in Jos and a Professor in Mista Ali Village and several other armed robberies and kidnapping in Plateau, Bauchi and Nasarawa States.
“The Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, appreciated the members of the public for the continuous support to the Police and the security community in ensuring safety and security in our various communities,” Mba declared. The IGP assured that the Force would be relentless in taking the battle to the doorstep of criminal elements hell bent at threatening the internal security order of the country and bringing such suspects to justice.
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp