Share this on WhatsApp





 


The All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), South-West Zone, has called for collaboration with State Governors in the zone to improve food production and self-sufficiency in the country.
Dr Femi Oke, Chairman of AFAN, Lagos State chapter and south-west zone made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Lagos.
Oke said that the partnership became imperative following recent happenings that resulted to food shortage in some parts of the country.
He said that AFAN, as the umbrella body of farmers in the country and the state governments should ensure that food was available always.
“We call on government of the south-west to assist farmers in the region to increase food production. We need conducive environment, improve security, mechanised machineries and accessible roads that will make farming easier.
“The recent incident is a wake-up call that we must increase our food security status in the region and all over the country.
“As a nation, we were not prepared for any food shortage and this is the right time for governments to increase their budgetary allocation to agriculture.
“There is no doubt that food scarcity will always be there but we must strengthen what we are doing now to ensure food self sufficiency of every state.
“State governments must take the bull by the horn and provide all that is needed to ensure that farmers produce enough food,” the AFAN chairman stressed.
Oke further said state governments should acquire some of the unoccupied lands within their communities for agricultural expansion, thereby bridging the gap between plenty and scarcity season.
He said that the land could be on short-term or long-term lease that would be under MOUs between the owners and government.
He noted that the present farmlands are not sufficient to cultivate enough to feed citizenry in the areas.
“Definitely, there are available lands within the region but unfortunately, they are not being utilised for agriculture.
“We have suggested that any useful land that is not being occupied should be acquired by government for a stipulated time for agriculture purposes.
“Government should make use of islands, swamps and other areas that are good for food cultivation within communities.
“The lands can be leased tentatively while some form of stipend   be paid to the owners pending duration of the agreement.
“The lands can be used for plantation, rice, vegetables, yam, cassava, fruits, pepper and other arable agricultural produce,” he said.
Oke further said that AFAN executives in the zone would hold a roundtable meeting in Ibadan on March 10, to discuss way forward in food production and security, opportunities for support through foreign loans and security-related issues.
He added that the meeting would also focus on recent developments in the agricultural sector and how it affected farmers and possible solutions.






Share this on WhatsApp