Share this on WhatsApp
 


A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former General Secretary of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), Chief Frank Ovie Kokori has revealed that cabal in the presidency is holding President Muhammadu Buhari prisoner in Aso Rock.
Speaking in an interview, Kokori said Buhari remains the most inaccessible leader Nigeria has ever got, adding that this has been the major problem confronting the country.
“Buhari is actually like a prisoner in Aso Rock. He has become a prisoner of a cabal. He doesn’t reach out to Nigerians, and Nigerians can’t also reach him. It is only powerful people that can reach him through the cabal. It is not Buhari that is in charge but the cabal. Buhari is not in touch with the people. All other leaders we’ve had in this country were more accessible than Buhari.
“The most inaccessible leader we’ve got is Buhari, and that is one of the major problems we have in this country. Most people that want to reach Buhari reach him through the cabal, and members of this cabal are trading with Buhari for pecuniary reasons.
“The Vice-President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo is like a clerk to Buhari. But this is not supposed to be so. The Vice-President’s position is a powerful one. He is the alternative president. The fact that the man is gentle doesn’t mean that they should cheat him.
According to him, Buhari should be consulting more with the Vice-President, and take decisions jointly with him, and not all the time with the cabal headed by the Chief of Staff.
“The Chief of Staff is supposed to take orders from the Vice-President but unfortunately they’ve relegated the Vice-President to Mr. Nobody. Osinbajo knows that he is being cheated badly but he is a gentleman, he doesn’t want to rock the boat.
Also speaking on insecurity in the country, Kokori said Nigeria is in a bad shape, noting that the challenge has now been on for more than four years and the government is not doing anything about it.
“Kidnappers and bandits are now having a field day, operating almost unchallenged. But for me, the blame for all these should be put on Mr. President because anybody that is the President of the country has the responsibility as the Commander-In-Chief to secure the lives and property of the citizens. But sadly, Buhari is not doing anything about it.
“The President should rise up to the occasion. No room for excuses. He should do the needful. Whatever that is required of him as the Commander-in-Chief, he should do it. He should remember that the buck stops at his table. Enough of excuses.
“Buhari should take the necessary action that will stop the drift towards anarchy. Nigeria is drifting but I believe that the situation can still be brought under control if Buhari acts decisively,” he added.

Share this on WhatsApp