Share this on WhatsApp
 


By Odunewu Olusegun
President/Founder of Consumer Advocacy Foundation of Nigeria (CAFON), Mrs. Sola Salako-Ajulo is expected to lead discussions at the Brand Journalists’ Association of Nigeria 2021 Consumer Rights Day celebration scheduled for 31st of March 2021 at LCCI Event & Exhibition Center in Lagos.
The event which has the theme, ‘’Tackling Plastic Pollution: Challenges, Solution and Benefits’’ also has other discussants in persons of Ms. Ifeoma Okoye, Sustainability and Community Affairs Manager, Nigerian Bottling Company PLC, Ms Chineze Amanfo, Lead, Public Relations, 9Mobile, Mrs. Sade Morgan, Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries PLC and Mr. Ayo Oluwatosin, Member, Board of Trustees, Association of Communication Scholars and Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN).
Others are drawn from manufacturing and sectors alike in the country.
To moderate the session is a seasoned communication expert, Mr. Bolaji Abimbola, Managing Director, Integrated Indigo Communications Limited.
The decision to mark this year’s event on the chosen date was as a result of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic which was envisaged to disrupt activities within the Marketing communication industry and the country at large.
Speaking on the event, Chairman of BJAN, Mr. Princewill Ekwujuru, said the association has made adequate preparations to ensure that the event is successful despite several challenges facing businesses currently.
He said, “We understand the current economic situation in the country caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, hence the delay and preparations to mark this year’s Consumer Rights Day on 15th of March.
He added that, “We have carefully selected our speakers this year considering the theme as a way of raising awareness and engaging consumers in Nigeria to adopt and promote more sustainable practices.
This year’s theme is building on last year’s theme of ‘The Sustainable Consumer’, the campaign will focus on the central role that consumer advocates, governments and businesses can play in tackling the global plastic pollution crisis.’’
Ekwujuru appeals to corporate organizations and Marketing Communication agencies to be part of the event by partnering with the association for successful hosting of Consumer Rights Day celebration 2021.
Organizations like Nestle, Nigeria Breweries, Guinness Nigeria, Seven-Up, Integrated Indigo Communications Ltd, Nigeria Institute of Public Relations, Lagos State Chapter and Association of Communication Scholars and Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN) have indicated interest to partner BJAN on this event.
Brand Journalists’ Association of Nigeria (BJAN) is an umbrella body of Journalists that cover brands, marketing and advertising in Nigeria with over 100 hundred members across Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp