Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has uncovered several oil depots, filling stations and multi-billion naira properties linked Brigadier-General Mohammed Jafaru, the director of Finance in the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno.
In the course of over one-year-long investigation, arrests of accomplices and execution of search warrants, the anti-graft agency made startling discoveries of assets linked to the general.
Investigations showed that he allegedly acquired the properties within the last five years.
Sources familiar with the case said the general’s children own 90 percent of shares of Atlasfield Group of Companies and its subsidiaries, which include Gee-Links Beverages & Industries Ltd and other companies belonging to him and his family.
The general, according to the findings, also jointly owns Gajere Multiple Links Nigeria Limited with his three children Khalid Mohammed, Anas Mohammed and Sani Mohammed.
Sources said at least 17 official accounts are linked to Mr. Jafaru’s Bank Verification Number, BVN.
The EFCC has obtained an interim forfeiture order in respect of at least eight properties linked to the military officer.
Granting an ex parte application for interim forfeiture of the assets and property by the EFCC made on March 9, Justice Folashade Ogunbanjo ordered the publication of the interim forfeiture of the assets and invited people “who may have interest in the assets and properties listed in the schedule to show cause, within 14 days of such publication, why a final order of forfeiture to the Federal Government of Nigeria of the said assets and properties should not be made.”
The assets traced to the proxies and associates of the General include: House on Plot 7, God’s Own Estate, Road 1, Wamna District, Abuja; a fencer plot at No 1 Jubril Aminu Crescent, Katampe Extension, Abuja; plot at Kubwa Express, Directly opposite Abuja Model City Gate, Abuja; and a house on Block SD 22 House 2, Road 5, Kabusa Garden Estate, Abuja.
Others are: No 15, 21 Crescent, 2nd Avenue, Gwarinpa Estate, Abuja; No 3 Liverpool Close, Sun City Estate, Abuja; No 52 Main Street, Sun City Estate, Abuja; and No 25 Osaka Street, Sun City Estate, Abuja.
Share this on WhatsApp