Share this on WhatsApp
 


First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has again taken a bold step towards driving value-added digital banking solutions in Nigeria with the introduction of paperless transactions within the bank’s over 200 branches in Nigeria.
With this innovation, customers no longer require deposit slips, withdrawal booklets, or cheque books to carry out over-the-counter transactions.
In addition, FCMB customers now have the opportunity to enjoy card-less banking experience by just using their fingerprints to withdraw and deposit cash at 575 select biometric Automated Teller Machine (ATM) points of the Bank spread across the country and via biometric Point of Sales (PoS) terminals available within the Bank’s branches.
Beyond this, the 575 biometric ATMs of FCMB can be used by customers for intra and interbank transfers as well as change of PIN and data update. The simple, convenient and secure card-less services are available for use when customers do not wish to go out with their debit cards or these are inaccessible due to loss or damage.
Commenting on the introduction of the card-less service, the Executive Director, Retail Banking of FCMB, Mr. Olu Akanmu, described it as another turning point and milestone in the digital transformation drive of the lender.
According to him, “the FCMB card-less biometric transaction on ATM is a pioneering innovation in digital banking in Nigeria that provides wider access to ATM usage for many more people who may not have debit cards. It delivers greater financial inclusion. Its biometric identity factor also delivers enhanced security and convenience for customers, taking their digital experience to the next level”.
Also speaking on the paperless over-the-counter transactions, the Divisional Head, Service Management and Operations of FCMB, Mr. Oluwakayode Adigun, assured that, “we will continue to re-engineer our processes and services by leveraging on emerging technologies and innovation to offer seamless customer experience at all our channels and touch-points”.
With a customer base in excess of 6 million, over 200 branches spread across Nigeria and upward growth in overall performance, FCMB has consistently upscale its operations, product and service offerings to empower and delight Nigerians.
The Bank’s resolve to create a unique user experience for customers has inspired it to successfully create opportunities, while also supporting their individual and business aspirations in various segments.
Share this on WhatsApp