Share this on WhatsAppBy Kingsley Chukwuka


The member representing Michika/Madagali in the House of Representatives, Dauda Zakariah Nyamapa has called on politicians to stop sponsoring cheap blackmails against elected office holders.

Nyamapa stated this while responding to a write-up calculated to malign his person and hardwork.

The Rep member said whereas it is not his nature to respond to every negative comment, since he believes in the inalienable right of Nigerians to free speech, he takes exception to orchestrated efforts to malign, impugn and whip up negative sentiments against his person through outright lies and calculated misinformation as contained in the write-up as published by a blog.

One of the claims in the article suggests that Hon. Nyamapa has not sponsored a single bill in the green chamber since elected, but it is on record the Nyamapa has sponsored the bill for Recapitalization of Insurance and Investment, and have moved motions for the Establishment of Military Barack in Madagali local government to halt the heinous criminal elements, as well as moved motions for the Non remittance of the contributions to NSITF amongst others, our correspondent reports after making its findings and speaking with the accused Rep member.

Nyamapa said if not that the write-up is in the public domain he would have refrained from responding to the article, as it was full of insult to his person.
 
“My work is there for everyone to see. The people of my constituency can testify to the various intervention and humanitarian services executed since they elected me to represent them.

“I am confident that if I recontest, my people will not hesitate to re-elect me and the PDP which is my party knowing that I have made them proud will not relent in their efforts to field me as the candidate of the people’s choice”, Nyamapa said.

He called on one Mohammed Suleiman who is the author of the write-up to engage himself in activities that will build the people of Adamawa, calling on him to also come forward with any suggestions that will better the lot of the people.

Share this on WhatsApp