Share this on WhatsApp
 


Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State may have escaped impeachment plot by members of the Borno State House of Assembly. Perhaps, the perceived impeachment plot may not be unconnected to the political maneuvers in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) towards the 2023 general elections. More so, Governor Zulum has been a front line advocate for power shift to the south in the 2023 presidential race.
However, no explicit reason was given for the speculated plot to impeach Governor Zulum.
The Borno Governor, therefore, declared that he is not perturbed by reports of the plot to impeach him by the state legislature.
Chief of Staff to Governor Zulum, Hussaini Marte, was cited to have alerted the people of Borno State of the impeachment plot, noting that Governor Zulum is not considering the speculated impeachment plot by the state lawmakers as a serious issue.
However, the Borno House of Assembly members were said to have in an extraordinary session last Friday refuted the insinuation the state legislature is plotting to impeach the governor.
The Chief of Staff to the governor, Marte, had at the launch of the Ninth Assembly Magazine and Awards Presentation, organised by the Northern Borno Students’ Association, in collaboration with the legislature, stated that Governor Zulum has sustained cordial working relationship with the lawmakers, adding that the governor is convinced the state legislators cannot plan to impeach him.
Marte attributed the reports to mischief makers, who, he said, intend to cause confusion in the state. He declared that they will not succeed, insisting that, in fact, they have failed.
The Chief of Staff told the state lawmakers that the governor is willing at all time working with them to transform and make the state better for all citizens.
The Chief of Staff was cited to have declared: “The Assembly has done exemplary well in terms of relationship with the Executive and passage of bills.
“I have never seen a House working so closely with the executive in the history of Nigeria like this Ninth Assembly.
“What happened is most unfortunate. I know it is just mere mischief by someone to cause confusion.
“That person will not succeed, and he has not succeeded. I want to inform all members of the Assembly that His Excellency has not taken that seriously, as he believes you can’t do anything like that.”
The Speaker of the Borno State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Abdulkarim Lawan, had dismissed the report as mere speculation. The Speaker affirmed that members of the House conducted an extraordinary session to refute the reports, and, thereafter, passed a vote of confidence on Governor Zulum.
It was pointed out that the state legislators were led by the Speaker and Deputy Governor Umar Kadafur, to the Maiduguri Airport last Sunday to identify with the party supporters to welcome Governor Zulum on his arrival from Abuja. Deputy Governor Kadafur had at the supporters’ rally, explained that he and the speaker led the lawmakers there to demonstrate their solidarity for Governor Zulum, acquainting the governor that he has the support of the people of Borno State, who he said are behind Zulum.
Share this on WhatsApp