Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Kaduna State Ministry of Public Works and Infrastructure has concluded arrangements to recover more than N3.2 billion outstanding water debt from military, para-military and federal establishments in the state.
It’s Commissioner, Hajiya Balaraba Inuwa,  disclosed this on Tuesday during a news briefing to mark this year’s World Water Day, in Kaduna.
Inuwa, represented by Bashir Lere, Permanent Secretary of the ministry said the cumulative sum of more than N3.2 billion debt accrued since 2014.
“A Reconciliation and Recovery Committee had already been set up since September 2020 to pursue the matter,” she said.
The commissioner noted that the theme for this year, “Valuing Water,” was apt, as it focuses not only on cost, but also the environmental and socio-cultural value placed on water resources.
“It is about what water means to people, it’s values and how we can protect this essential life resources.
“To save water resources and to solve the problems of clean water by public utilities, commercial organisations, community endeavours or by individuals.’’
Inuwa added that the commemoration was timely in view of the fact that the world was facing COVID-19 pandemic.
“The hand washing protocol cannot be overemphasized in this time of the global challenge on the fight against COVID-19 virus.
“Water has an important role in carrying out the health protocol to curtail the spread of the pandemic,” she said.
Inuwa said the Day also provided an opportunity to deepen collaboration between government, relevant stakeholders and the public on progresses made by the present administration on quality water supply in the state.
“The initiation of expansion of water supply due to rapid development of the state which is tagged: “Greater Kaduna Expansion Project,” has made significant progress to include provision and rehabilitation of existing water facilities.
“Others are expansion of pipeline distribution network and construction of new facilities.”
The commissioner said that the projects were being executed in Kaduna, Zaria, Kafanchan, Kwoi and Saminaka.
She disclosed that the government was also reviewing the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and engineering designs for Greater Kaduna Water Supply Expansion Project.
According to her, the state government has procured water treatment chemicals worth N758 million to ensure provision of clean water to the public.
“Plans are equally underway to procure 10,000 water meters and house connection materials in order to improve water supply and boost the revenue generation efforts,” she added.
Inuwa enjoined residents to pay their water bills promptly, safeguard water projects, and report leakages or broken  water pipes.
 
Share this on WhatsApp