Share this on WhatsApp
 


Prof. Job Nmadu of the Federal University of Technology, Minna (FUTMINNA) has urged the National Universities Commission (NUC) to approve a new curriculum that would recognise Agricultural Economics as a programme in Nigeria.
Nmadu, a professor of Agricultural Economics FUTMINNA, made the call in a speech he presented at the 20th Annual Conference of the Nigeria Association of Agricultural Economists (NAAE) held at the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom, a copy of which was made available to NAN.
”It has become necessary for agricultural economics to be studied as a programme in view of its importance to agricultural development in the country.
Nmadu, while commending the NUC and some stakeholders for the  efforts so far made in that regard, expressed optimism that the  approval would be given soon.
He said, “we are anxiously awaiting the final approval by the National
Universities Commission (NUC) of the new curriculum for
agricultural training in Nigeria.
“This will recognise Agricultural Economics as a programme rather than the passenger-status we have maintained all along.
“I wish to express my satisfaction with the contributions of Prof. Victor Okoruwa of the university of Ibadan and Prof. Sylvanus Abang of the University of Calabar.”
Nmadu said approval of new curriculum would help tackle age long challenges encountered in the sector, particularly agricultural risks and management, which was theme of the conference.
“The theme for this year’s conference was aptly chosen to reflect the need for Nigeria to chart a new agricultural space.
“A space which is productive and remunerative at reasonably low risk and where the risk arises, it is appropriately managed.
“The conference has been a platform focused on government policies, programmes and projects aimed at agricultural development with particular reference to small scale producers, processors, input dealers, traders and entrepreneurs.
“How much success is achieved is the link between the correct policy prescription and strategic implementation of outcomes and outputs.”
He further noted that “recently, researchers at Michigan State University (MSU) outlined what they called policy-misprescription in Nigeria’s food product supply chains by enumerating important ‘myths’ of policy prescription.
“In the paper, they concluded that most policies are bereaved of enough conceptualisation as most seems to be guesswork.
“Therefore, more efforts need to be put in by everyone, technocrats, bureaucrats, policy makers and lawmakers to ensure that appropriate policies are applied to the agricultural, environmental and food systems in Nigeria.
“This is to achieve the ultimate objective of self-sufficiency in food production and export, especially with fragile production and weather systems which place high premium on risk management.”
The don congratulated the host of the conference, Prof. Nyaudoh Ndaeyo, on his appointment as Vice Chancellor of the University of Uyo.

Share this on WhatsApp