Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The anti-herdsmen sentiments in the southwest may cause serious problems for the All Progressives Congress chieftain, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and his rumoured presidential ambition in 2023, according to one of the umbrella bodies of herdsmen in Nigeria, the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore.
Spokesman of the group, Saleh Alhassan who disclosed this on Wednesday, said  leaders in Yorubaland including leader of socio-political group, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, had accused Tinubu of keeping silent on the matte because he does not want to jeopardise his 2023 presidential ambition and because he does not want to offend the President Muhammadu Buhari.
Recalls that nomadic herders in parts of the country, especially in the South-West geopolitical zone, have been accused of trespassing on farmlands of host farmers with their cattle.
Farm produce worth millions of naira have been destroyed in the last few months. Some herders have also been accused of raping women in host communities, kidnapping the rich and in some cases, killing host residents, amongst other unprintable crimes.
Governors in the zone under the aegis of the South-West Governors’ Forum chaired by Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, have come up with many proposed solutions including prohibition of open grazing, night grazing, under-age grazing, amongst others.
But the former Lagos State governor broke his silence on the matter on March 13, 2021 in a statement titled, ‘Tinubu’s Statement on the Herder Crisis’.
In the statement, the former Lagos State governor urged state governments to convert unoccupied public lands to ranches for herdsmen.
Reacting to the proposed idea by Tinubu as a way of solving the near-perennial farmers-herders crisis rocking the nation, the Miyetti Allah spokesman lauded the idea but said the country was not yet ready to embrace or implement “progressive solutions”.
Alhassan said, “I sympathise with him (Tinubu) because if he says more than what he is saying, they will say he is pushing for his presidential ambition. That is why he takes time before he even responds but I expected him to call all his political godsons —who are governors — that are causing this confusion to order. He should call them and say, ‘Hey, when I become president, I will solve this problem for us’ (and) not to create problems for him, for his ambition.”
When asked whether the farmers-herders crisis could affect the political ambition of Tinubu, Alhassan alleged, “When you have a group of people attacking citizens, does it translate to political love? When you have the supposed Amotekun joining militants to attack traders in Shasha (in Oyo State), burn their properties, does it give a good political value to whoever wants to get support from those people?”
Share this on WhatsApp