Share this on WhatsApp






 


Mr Abayomi Adesanya, a former Caretaker Chairman, Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State, has commended Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for the appointment of Mrs Oladuni Odu as the new Secretary to the State Government (SSG).
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Akeredolu had, on Wednesday, announced Odu’s appointment, thus making her the first female to occupy the office in the state.
Adesanya, in a statement issued by his Press Secretary, Mr Martins Fasusi on Thursday in Okitipupa, said that Odu had made history as the first female SSG, saying that her appointment was a victory for women in the state.
While stating Odu’s appointment was well-deserved, he described the new SSG as intelligent, diligent and a goal-getter, with a sense of responsibility and dedication to duty.
According to him, Odu has proven records of outstanding achievements in her previous achievements, both at the state and federal levels.
Adesanya, who is also the pioneer Spokesman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, lauded Akeredolu for his unflinching support to women in politics and for being gender-sensitive in his appointments.
He also commended the governor for always giving preference to competence over any other consideration in the reconstitution of his cabinet.
“The appointment of Odu as the first SSG is indeed victory for women in the state. I want to commend the governor for his unflinching support to women and for being gender-sensitive in his appointments.
“I also want to congratulate the new SSG on her well- deserved appointment, which has further demonstrated that there are always rewards for hard work and loyalty.
“There is no doubting the fact that Odu is eminently qualified for that exalted position, having served in various capacities within and outside the state.
“I have no doubt that she will discharge the functions of her office dutifully and diligently, as required by law, with divine wisdom,” Adesanya said.
He, however, urged women to reciprocate the good gesture by continually supporting and praying for the Akeredolu-led administration in its quest to transform the state and take it to an enviable height.
NAN reports that Odu, who hails from Okitipupa LGA, was the Chairperson of the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) before her new appointment.






Share this on WhatsApp