Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Lagos State Government has said no effort would be spared in getting rid of dilapidated buildings across the state as it has intensified efforts to reduce the incidences of building collapse as the rainy season approaches.
The General Manager, Lagos State Building Control Agency, Gbolahan Oki, said this during the demolition of distressed buildings located at, 17b, Odo Osun Street, Off Glover Street and 20 Omididun Street both on Lagos Island on Sunday.
A statement from the Assistant Director /Public Affairs, LASBCA, Gbadeyan Bello, titled ‘Building collapse: LABSCA, LASPPPA intensify preparations ahead of rains… Demolish more distressed buildings on Lagos Island, others said.
Oki said that the demolition exercise was scheduled for Sunday because of traffic congestion and for ease of moving the demolition equipment by the officials of the agency.
He recalled that the occupants of the buildings had been served different notices since 2019 with a reminder notice sent to them two weeks ago to vacate the buildings in order not to continue to endanger their lives and that of their neighbours.
The LABSCA boss stated, “We must begin to be very civil in our approaches to issues especially when it borders on human lives by not waiting until the worst happens.
“I find it very hard to believe that some people could still be pleading with the occupants of this distressed building for more time from the government.”
He expressed the hope that Lagosians would soon begin to follow the appropriate process of pulling down distressed buildings on their own without waiting for the government to be spending taxpayers’ money on mobilising equipment and human resources for building demolition.
While saying that the demolition exercise would continue across different parts of the state, Oki advised Lagosians to always build safely and prioritise their individual as well as collective safety as that remains the major way of averting incessant building collapse.
Also speaking during the demolition exercise, Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority District Officer for Lagos Island, Yemisi Alaka, said that the demolition exercise was in continuation of the exercise started by both LASBCA and LASPPPA some weeks ago.
She explained that LABSCA had earlier identified several distressed buildings across the state for demolition following a survey carried out by the agency and the reports and information received from members of the public.
She stated that the State Government identified some buildings that were about to give way, so rather than leaving the buildings to cause havoc, the identified buildings were marked for demolition by the agency to avert the tragedy of loss of lives when the rains start.
 
Share this on WhatsApp