Share this on WhatsApp
 


A medical expert, Dr. Steven Hotze, founder and CEO of Hotze Health & Wellness Center in Houston Texas, USA has warned that the so-called COVID-19 vaccine is not a vaccine at all, but a dangerous experimental gene therapy that poses serious dangers to the lives of people.
Dr. Hotze explains that research has revealed that the so-called COVID-19 “vaccine” does not provide the individuals who receive the vaccine with immunity to COVID-19, nor does it prevent the transmission of the disease.
According to him, the vaccines were approved without any published animal studies and without any long-term human studies, noting that the individuals who get vaccinated by the vaccine are the guinea pigs.
“They are an untested, unproven experimental gene therapy that poses a much greater danger to your health than COVID-19 itself.
“It does not meet the CDC’s own definition of a vaccine. That is why it is a deceptive trade practice, under 15 U.S. Code, Section 41 of the Federal Trade Commission, for pharmaceutical companies who are producing this experimental gene therapy, to claim that this is a vaccine.
“These pharmaceutical companies are lying to the public. The government health bureaucrats are also lying to the public, by calling this treatment a vaccine. This COVID-19 experimental gene therapy is only designed to minimize your symptoms if you were to be infected with the COVID-19 virus.
He said adverse effects are inevitable as over 40,000 adverse effects and nearly 1000 deaths have been recorded from the so called “vaccine” in the U.S. so far.
“In the first month of use, there were more than 40,000 documented adverse reactions in the U.S., including thousands of cases of anaphylactic shock and serious neurological problems.
“Because only 10% of adverse effects are routinely reported, hundreds of thousands have likely been harmed. That is only in the first 30 days! As of February 14, there were also 934 deaths in individuals who had received this experimental gene therapy so-called “vaccine,” including baseball great, Hank Aaron.
He also raises serious concerns about the long-term adverse effects as the synthetic mRNA experimental gene therapy turns on the production of COVID-19 proteins, but it has no off switch.
“It just keeps on replicating, and the immune system keeps on mounting an immune response. That is why some researchers are concerned that it will provoke autoimmune reactions, setting you up for a lifetime of serious inflammatory disease.”
“Another major concern is the possibility that the COVID-19 experimental gene therapy can make infections worse. There is convincing evidence that this experimental gene therapy may trigger an antibody-dependent enhancement reaction and increase the virus’s ability to infect your cells.
“In other words, if you come down with a coronavirus infection after receiving your experimental gene therapy, then you may have a much worse case than if you had never had this therapy. Many experts are predicting a surge of life-threatening infections, inflammatory disorders and deaths in the coming months for those who have received this treatment,” he added.
He said not only is the media downplaying the COVID-19 gene therapy side effects, but they seem content to simply repeat the drug makers’ overly optimistic claims of efficacy.
“You have probably heard that both the Pfizer and Moderna “vaccines” are 95% effective. This is a false claim. Yet, the medical establishment and the government bureaucrats have simply taken these pharmaceutical companies’ word for it and are encouraging everyone to line up for their “vaccines.”
Share this on WhatsApp