Share this on WhatsApp
 


As publicity for the largest Global Healing Crusade hits top gear, the organisers are sparing nothing in the push to reach over 5billion people at once.
All is now set for the much-anticipated largest global healing crusade to be hosted by President Loveworld Incorporated Pastor Chris Oyakhilome. It is indeed something phenomenal and it is happening this weekend from Friday 12th to Sunday 14th of March; the world will be changed as a direct result of the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris – a special programme organized by the world-renown Healing School of the Loveworld Incorporated, through which several thousands have been healed of diverse ailments and diseases.
Two editions of Healing Streams Live Healing Services held in September and December 2020 respectively. These were truly astounding episodes of the miraculous. There are many reports of people healed of cancer, blindness, deafness, blood conditions, and many other diseases and infirmities. Location is not a barrier for anyone who has faith; several of the miracles recorded happened to the beneficiaries in their homes, offices, hospital, on the road… everywhere! What’s more? Testimonies of these miracles continue to flow in by the day, several months after the programs held.
Also Read:Billions attend Pastor Chris Global Prayer Day
With globally acclaimed Pastor Chris Oyakhilome hosting the upcoming edition of Healing Streams Live Healing Services, this worldwide event will give billions across the globe cause to celebrate and glorify the Name of the Lord.

As publicity for the largest Global Healing Crusade hits top gear, the organisers are sparing nothing in the push to reach over 5billion people at once. The publicity material made available said: “Are you ready for a new chapter? Do you want the healing power of God manifested in any area of your life – be it physical health, finances, family, business, etc.? Don’t miss this spectacular opportunity for a change. Join billions all over the world for an extraordinary time in what many are calling the greatest healing crusade that the world has ever seen. It will be a carnival of testimonies and miracles, a global event that will blanket the world with an atmosphere of miracles to the glory of God.”
The Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris will hold from Friday March 12 to Sunday 14, by 6:00pm (GMT+1) each day.
“You can register now at www.healingstreams.tv/3days. Live participation will be done via the website: www.healingstreams.tv or on the Healing School Mobile App (available for download on the Google Play Store and Apple App Store). For enquires on viewing centers for group participation, kindly make enquiries on the website,” the statement added.
Many have wondered what would have become of the world without the Healing School of Christ Embassy. There has been nothing like it, and nothing would ever be like it, both in terms of reach, impact and as a tool of evangelism. Till date, millions of people have had the story of their lives rewritten because of the opportunity to attend the Healing School. Ailments that were dubbed incurable became healable.

Over the years, the Healing School has moved between Africa, North America, and Europe registering wonders and life changing testimonies. People from all over the world have experienced the enrapturing of the awesomeness of God’s presence through Healing School services. And these services have inspired others to stand firm in faith and to take hold of their miracles, several who received their healing through Healing Streams TV were featured in the studio and also by video conference to tell their tales of triumph by faith.
You just could be next in line for a miracle!

Download the Healing School Mobile App now or register via www.healingstreams.tv/3days

Share this on WhatsApp