Share this on WhatsApp
 


The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has extended his overtures and lobby for the 2023 presidential ticket to northwest, displaying humanitarian gestures in Katsina State where he made a donation of N50 million to victims of the Katsina Central Market fire outbreak.
Tinubu, on a condolence visit to the Katsina State government on Wednesday, sympathized with victims of the fire outbreak.
The APC national leader received by Governor Aminu Masari, and other top government officials Katsina State government on arrival, commiserated with victims of the fire incident. He encouraged the victims to market activities not minding the level of destruction and damages encountered. He maintained that “life must continue.”
The former Governor of Lagos State, in a media interaction, disclosed that the purpose of the visit was to sympathise with the victims of the fire outbreak, and also promote unity among Nigerians.
The APC national leader empathized with the traders over the fire outbreak which gutted scores of stalls at Katsina Central Market in the early hours of Monday, which destroyed goods and properties valued at millions of naira.
Tinubu expressed that Nigerians must be their brother keepers, noting the need to promote unity and collaboration among Nigerians.
The Federal Government had sent a delegation to Katsina State after the fire outbreak. The delegation received by Chairman of Traders Union, Abbas Labaran Albaba, selected members of the union, and some of the victims, inspected the scene of the fire outbreak. They moved round with market officials and victims for first-hand information and assessment of the level of damages in the affected areas.
The delegation included the Minister of Interior, Ra’uf Aregbosola, Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, including the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sa’adiyya Umar Faruq; and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu.
Meanwhile, there were innuendoes that the Katsina market fire outbreak provided Tinubu ample opportunity to build inroad into the northwest in his mobilization for support for the 2023 presidential race.
Share this on WhatsApp