Share this on WhatsApp
 


Former Governor Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso of Kano State, leader of the Kwakwansiyya Movement, in an interview on BBC Hausa, accused Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State of beguiling President Muhammadu Buhari with hazy road project photograph, plausibly to justify a N20 billion loan for the project. Kwankwaso had purported that Governor Ganduje presented a road project photograph when he visited President Buhari at the State House, Abuja, which the president did not understand. Senator Kwankwaso had noted that the project design Governor Ganduje presented to President Buhari was poorly done, adding that the president has a better design in his office than what was presented by Ganduje.
Governor Ganduje was gathered to have visited the president early last week where he displayed a prototype of the proposed Muhammadu Buhari three-level interchange in Kano before the president.
Kwankwaso berated Ganduje to have disclosed that the road is a federal facility, but rather than appealing to the president to reconstruct the road, acquired N20 billion loan for the construction of the road.  The former Kano governor also scolded Ganduje over lack of focus on right priorities in the governance of the state. He decried that Ganduje undermines   the education and welfare of residents of the state, which should be of utmost importance in the development of Kano State.
Senator Kwankwaso was said to have declared in an interview with BBC Hausa that he wondered why Ganduje acquired N20 billion loan to reconstruct the road, which he identified as a federal project and the responsibility of the federal government.
“Instead of Ganduje to go and see the president and ask him to do the bridge, because it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to do the flyovers connecting Kano metropolis to Wudil, the governor went ahead and presented a photo that was badly designed, which even the president did not understand. There is something better in his office,” Kwankwaso was cited to have said.
Share this on WhatsApp