Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Nigeria Liquified Natural Gas Limited (NLNG) has won the Gas Company of the Year Award at the recently concluded 12th Nigerian Gas Association (NGA) Biennial International Conference and Awards event.
The company made this known in a statement by Dr Sophia Horsfall Manager, head, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs, in Abuja, on Wednesday.
She said NLNG was recognised for its outstanding contributions to the gas industry in Nigeria.
“This is coming on the heels of the World LNG Summit and Awards in December 2020, where NLNG was adjudged to be one of the two organisations that have made most outstanding contribution to the industry globally,” she said.
She quoted the General Manager, External Relations & Sustainable Development, Mrs. Eyono Fatayi-Williams, as saying that  the award was a clear validation of the growing relevance and importance of natural gas as a game-changer in Nigeria.
“It is indeed the Decade of Gas. Gas is undoubtedly the future. Gas is cleaner, cheaper, more abundant and the smartest partner to renewables for sustainable development.
“Our success story is a testament to what is possible in this Decade of Gas. This is time for Nigeria to diversify its economy from oil and to fly on the wings of Gas,” she said.
She added that NLNG’s Train 7 would provide about 12 billion dollars in Foreign Direct investment to Nigeria and over 12,000 jobs at the peak of construction.
“Still, even at that, our ambition is to ramp up to Trains 8, 9, 10 and more, with the support of our shareholders and the Federal Government.
“The transformative effect of this increased use of our nation’s abundant gas reserves on its economy will be wholly positive and thoroughly beneficial,” Fatayi-Williams said while receiving the ward.
She stated that the company firmly believed that gas development would translate to more jobs, cleaner and cheaper energy, more industries, more food through fertilizer, cheaper transportation, and a much better quality of life for all Nigerians.
She further commended the NGA for recognising NLNG’s resilience and excellent delivery amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, and dedicated the award to a better and prosperous future for Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp