Share this on WhatsApp






 


The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Edo chapter says bridge building, collaboration and partnership among sister states in the South-South will fast track development across the zone.
Mr Chris Nehikhare, the State Publicity Secretary of the party, said this in a statement on Wednesday while reacting to a statement by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo flaying Gov. Godwin Obaseki for inaugurating projects in Delta.
The APC had in a statement by Mr Victor Osehobo, the Assistant State Publicity Secretary titled “Edo APC flays Obaseki’s government for marking his 100 days in Delta State” had alleged that the Obaseki-led administrstion was marking its 100 days in office in neighboring Delta by commissioning white elephants on behalf of another State.
In a swift reaction, Nehikhare  accused the APC of ignorance in the act of bridge building, collaboration and partnership, a situation he said led the party to be in opposition today in Edo.
He said “in the latest press release, Edo APC has exhibited its ignorance in the act of bridge building and collaboration and partnership, the very reason they are in opposition today.
“How can any serious political party talk down on partnerships with a sister state especially one that shares same DNA?
“In case they are not aware, Delta was part of Midwest and then Bendel state from which Edo and Delta states were created.
“Further more, both states are part of the strategic zone called South South and all its governors belong to the same political party, and the way to go in fast tracking development across the zone is bridge building, collaboration, and partnership”.
He also dispel allege talk by the APC of infighting in PDP, adding that the PDP was the most organised, most cohesive, people-centered and credible party in the state.
“Our policies and programmes for the society are with a view to promoting the collective good and not the personal aggrandisement policy.
“Or has APC conveniently forgotten or is it feigning ignorance that they do not know why Gov. Obaseki left their party?
“Gov. Godwin Obaseki’s insistence on using state resources to develop and build infrastructure for Edo people and not stomach infrastructure for APC leaders and cabal was the reason he left.
“During the campaigns, Obaseki promised to ‘Reset Edo’.
“He talked about reforms in the civil service, reforms in governance and reforms in attitudes.
“Today, these reforms are ongoing and reports from the technical committee setup to review these will be submitted soon,” Nehikhare said.
The Publicity Secretary stated that the Obaseki-led administrstion was and would continue to deliver on its promises to Edo people.
“It might interest you to know that this government has advertised up to 2,000 vacancies in the state civil service alone without the sack of one single worker, while there have been hundred of thousands of potpourri of jobs created as a result of the enabling environment created by government.
“Obaseki and PDP will continue to deliver on good governance!
“The Resetting Edo Agenda is causing serious discomfort for APC.
“Edo Must Move Forward,” he said.













Share this on WhatsApp