Share this on WhatsApp






 


The National Salaries Incomes and Wages Commission (NSIWC) has described the Nigeria Police Force as an enduring national symbol that has evolved from pre-independence to a truly modern national institution.
This is according to a statement from Mr Emma Njoku, the Chief Press Secretary, NSIWC, on Monday.
Njoku said that the Acting Chairman of the commission, Mr Ekpo Nta, made the assertion when he received a team led by the Inspector-General of Police (I-G), Mr Mohammed Adamu in his office in Abuja.
Nta noted that he was proud of the national and international achievements of the police force within the context of resources available to it.
He added that police personnel were constrained to work beyond approved hours of shift duties due to ongoing security challenges and manpower constraints.
“It is worthy of note that at the last negotiations for the Consequential Adjustment of salaries arising from the National Minimum Wage Act 2019, the commission in recognition of their selfless sacrifices for the country, also recommended a percentage increase for the Police, paramilitary agencies, intelligence community and the Armed Forces,” he said.
The acting chairman noted that the commission’s position was unanimously endorsed by both the Ministry of Labour and Employment and the Federal Government.
Nta further said that the commission had embarked on implementing more productivity and improvement schemes in the public sector to ensure that increases in salaries and allowances were backed with relative productivity as justification.
He also explained that the commission would extend the productivity improvement schemes to the security sector so that governments would have the empirical data needed for continuous positive investments and interventions.
Earlier, the I-G extensively briefed the commission on the current status and the need for a regular review of the conditions of service, remunerations and pensions of the police.
Adamu said this was in order to maximise the force’s effectiveness and adequately motivate its personnel.
A highlight of the visit was the presentation to the I-G of some research publications undertaken by NSIWC in Incomes Surveys of the Health Sector (Private Health Facilities) and of the informal sector.
















Share this on WhatsApp