Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu
        Share this on WhatsApp

 


The Inspector General of Police (I-G), Mr Mohammed Adamu has called on personnel of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to take advantage of the Mobile Banking Application of the NPF Microfinance Bank PLC.
Adamu made the call on Wednesday in Abuja at the official inauguration of the bank’s mobile application.
“I encourage all officers and men of the NPF, both serving and retired, and the general banking public to take advantage of the technical innovation of the bank.
“This is to enjoy the limitless possibilities on the Mobile Banking Application and Agency Banking platform of the NPF Microfinance Bank PLC,” he said.
Adamu said the unique mobile application was created to provide financial services for both serving and retired police officers and the public.
According to him, the bank has found it expedient to develop a “Mobile Banking Application, Agency Banking and the use of USSD” to meet the needs of its customers.
The I-G said the application was developed to also improve on the services rendered to customers and realize the vision of the establishment.
Adamu said with the inauguration of the application, customers could perform key banking operations from the comfort of their homes
He said the mobile banking application was to reduce delay in transactions and improve operational efficiencies.
According to him, the mobile banking application will no doubt improve interaction with customers, deliver their needs speedily and provide ways to make internal functions more efficient.
In his remark, Mr Azubuko Udah, the Chairman, NPF Microfinance Bank PLC, said the inauguration of the mobile application came at a time when customers demand timelessness, flexibility and convenience in financial transactions.
He said innovation in technology had over time revolutionised the banking sector and informed the desire of banks to include deployment of mobile banking application as a key aspect of banks digital strategy.
Udah said the application was created to bring the financial services of the bank closer to its customers, regardless of the time of day or location.
 
Share this on WhatsApp