Share this on WhatsApp
 


After the Anti-Corruption Network blew the whistle on APC Kogi Gov. Yahayah Bello for squandering billions of naira, the PDP is calling on the new EFCC chairman Abdulrasheed Bawa to investigate the governor.
The party’s call to the EFCC followed a squeal by a civil society organisation, the Anti-Corruption Network, accusing Governor Bello of squandering billions of naira in public funds.
In a statement on Thursday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party challenged the governor to speak out on the allegation.
“Governor Yahaya Bello is demanded to provide answers to revelations made by the anti-graft body, which is in the public domain, that he has been laundering billions of naira in several tranches through award of contracts to non-legal persons as well as inactive companies with no transaction descriptions and due process certification.
“The APC (All Progressives Congress) poster boy should answer to revelations by the Anti-Corruption Network that he laundered over N3.7 billion through one Abdulsalami Hudu; in addition to billions of naira allegedly laundered through other individuals including certain, Umar Comfort, Jimoh Aminu, Philip Salau, Bello Ibrahim among others.
“Also, Gov Yahaya Bello should answer to allegations by the Anti-Corruption Network that he siphoned billions of naira through award of contracts, without due process, to Southbridge Integrated Services Limited to the tune of N624 million, in addition to five other companies which allegedly got between N22 million N129 million respectively.
“It is indeed disheartening that such funds were monies meant for infrastructural development, provision of healthcare, education facilities, road construction, payment of salaries and pension and other benefits, which have been deprived the people since the inception of the Bello administration.
“Against this background, our party calls on the EFCC, under its new leadership, to immediately commence investigation by inviting all those mentioned in the report as well as prosecute any individual or company indicted in the matter”.
The party said nobody should be allowed to hide under the cover of immunity to get away with criminal pillaging of public resources entrusted into their hands.
“It is also instructive to state that the immunity clause, as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution (as amended), does not prohibit the investigation of a sitting governor or the prosecution of his aides, officials or cronies, who were used to steal public funds”, the statement added.
Share this on WhatsApp