Share this on WhatsApp
 


Remo Stars Football Academy on Wednesday forced Ottasolo Football Club to a 2-2 draw at the ongoing Nationwide League One (NLO) playoff in Ilorin.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the match was played at the Kwara Stadium Complex, Ilorin.
NAN also reports that the result means Ottasolo have booked a place in the final of the playoff, they will face Seat of God FC of Kaduna, who came first at the Kwara Football Academy pitch centre.
Remo Academy took the lead through Lekan Oyedele in the 8th minute of play after Ottasolo failed to defend properly.
It was an interesting game that had some moments to savour as the teams took the game to themselves.
Solumade Boluwaji drew Ottasolo level with a powerful header in the 30th minute off a well taken corner kick.
Peter John put Ottasolo ahead for the first time in the game with few seconds before the break with a superb jabbing off a well tailored cross after a counter attack.
Oyedele net his brace from the spot to draw Remo Stars level 2-2 after an Ottasolo defender impeded an attacker in the 52nd minute.
In the other match, FC Ebedei defeated Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) FC of Zaria 2-1 in another interesting encounter decided at the Kwara Stadium Complex, Ilorin centre.
Bashir Ahmed poked home the first goal for FC Ebedei in the 11th minute with a sublime finish.
Ibrahim Sunday made 2-0 for FC Ebedei in the 63rd minute of play after multiple exchange of passes before the goal.
Bashir Yakubu halved the deficit for the University Boys in the 87th minute.
Ottasolo FC finished the Kwara Stadium Complex, Ilorin centre, with 16 points with Remo Stars in the 2nd spot with 14 points from six games.
FC Ebedei garnered 11 points in the 3rd position while K.J FC of Kaduna picked 9 points from six games.
Vet Rovers of Vom, Plateau, have 5 points in 5th position followed by ABU FC with 4 points in 6th from five games.
EKSU Galacticos failed to score goal, conceded 10 goals at the playoff while ES Esperance did not show up at all.
At the KFA pitch centre, Ilorin, Seat of God came first on the log with 9 points from four games while they are followed by Knights FC of Ile-Ife with five points.
Hammola International FC is in the 3rd position with five points with Mighty Jets Feeders team in 4th place with four points.
Olukismet FC of Ekiti gathered three points from four games while Kaduna United withdrawn from the plaloff.
NAN reports that the final of the playoff will come up on Friday at 4 p.m at the Kwara Stadium Complex, Ilorin.
The winner of each centre will qualify to play in the 2nd tier league, the Nigeria National League (NNL).
Share this on WhatsApp