Share this on WhatsApp
 


Ericsson, a multinational telecommunications company, says it has launched a new network programmability tool, called 5G Core Policy Studio, to make networks smarter.
Ericsson in a statement on Tuesday said that the 5G core policy studio would enable communications service providers (CSPs) to easily capture 5G revenue through offering differentiation.
The statement said that the 5G Core Policy Studio tool is a central provision engine that works at the core of the network.
According to the statement, it enables access and control of all policies that manage different 5G and 4G services through one easy-to-use graphical user interface (GUI).
The statement said that it allowed communications service providers to configure innovative services in a dynamic way within network slices for consumers and enterprise customers.
“Ericsson testing shows that the tool can deliver savings of up to 70 per cent in policy configuration operational expenditures.
“It can do this by simplifying the design and configuration activities compared to similar network configuration execution without the tool, the statement said.
Monica Zethzon, Head of Solution Area Cloud Packet Core, Ericsson, said: “We see that 5G is a software game; through our software, we make networks smarter because this in turn enables smart business.
Zethzon said that smart networks were key for enabling communications service providers to offer customised services to consumers and enterprises.
“With our 5G Core Policy Studio, network providers will be able to provide tailored connectivity services across their customer base.
“Ericsson’s 5G Core Policy Studio is a network programmability tool to adapt service performance depending on conditions such as the type of subscription, time of day, service area or device location,” Zethzon said.
Andy Hicks, Principal Analyst, Global Data, said: “Ericsson 5G Core Policy Studio builds on the company’s strengths in converged policy control.
Hicks said that it featured support by introducing unified control of all policy enforcement mechanisms as well a new network programmability tool.
The principal analyst said that the 5G Core Policy Studio should help operators to monetise 4G and 5G services, by speeding innovation and adjusting network service characteristics dynamically.
 
Share this on WhatsApp