Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa
        Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Gov Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State on Friday agreed to partner the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) to develop blue economy in the country.
The Head, Corporate Communications, NIMASA, Philip Kyanet, in a statement in Lagos on Friday, indicated that Governor  Okowa acknowledged that  the blue economy would create strong maritime business hob in Delta State and other continental shelf states in Nigeria.
The governor disclosed that the establishment of the Nigeria Maritime University has been instrumental in restoring peace and reconciliation in the Niger Delta.
Governor Okowa further said that the Maritime University sited at Okerenkoko, in Gbaramatu Kingdom of Delta, was established in 2017 with the support of NIMASA.
 
“I am aware that we have been having issues with the ship repairs and building project and we will be happy to see this industry established to complement the university.
“We are aware that a lot of scholarships have been given to Delta people and I must register our appreciation to NIMASA.
“Indeed, the coming of the university gave birth to peace in the Niger Delta and we must appreciate NIMASA for its contribution.
“I am glad that a lot is being done by NIMASA, particularly in Delta and we will continue to appreciate it so that you will continue to do more,” ,” Governor Okowa had said.
The Director General of NIMASA, Dr Bashir Jamoh, had stated that the participation and support of the government and people of the Niger Delta were key factors in the successful development of a robust blue economy in the country.
“It is my sincere pleasure to be with you as part of our stakeholders’ sensitisation in terms of the development of the maritime sector.
” We felt there should be a moral and political buy-in from everyone in the littoral states.
“Our maritime sector is a huge treasure trove of development opportunities. The sector can fetch us even much more than oil, as recent studies by experts, including the World Bank, have shown.
“As an agency of the Federal Government, and the maritime regulatory body of the country, we should be in the vanguard of this new move to get our critical stakeholders on board as we strive to wean Nigeria off oil dependence,” the NIMASA DG had said.
The DG pointed out that NIMASA in the last seven years, sited three significant maritime projects in Delta State – the Nigeria Maritime University, Okerenkoko, the NIMASA Science and Technical College, Okoloba; and a proposed shipyard for ship repairs.
Jamoh emphasised that over 1,000 Delta State indigenes had benefited from the NIMASA’s overseas scholarship scheme to study marine-related courses. He encouraged more participation from the government and people of Delta in harnessing the enormous maritime potential of the region.
Jamoh disclosed that “Opportunities for profitable investment abound in shipbuilding, ship repairs, ship recycling, and shipping.”
The NIMASA DG was on the visit with the three Executive Directors: Victor Ochei, Maritime Labour and Cabotage Services; Shehu Ahmed, Operations; and Hon. Chudi Offodile, Finance and Administration.
The Special Assistant to the Director-General on Communications and Strategy, Ubong Essien, was also part of the visiting team.
Share this on WhatsApp