Share this on WhatsApp

 


The Federal Government has sought a collaborative partnership with the Oyo State Government for the development of the mining sector.
The Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development – Dr Uchechukwu Ogah, made the remarks when he visited Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State on Tuesday in Ibadan.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ogah is on a working visit to attend the 56th Annual International Conference and Exhibitions on mining, holding in Ibadan.
He said the courtesy visit was to share with the governor some worthwhile thoughts that impact positively on the mutual interests of his government and the Ministry of Mines and Steel.
He said that Oyo state “is richly endowed with different mineral resources in commercial quantities and grade in several locations across the state’’.
According to him, these minerals, which are being exploited by different mining companies include; precious stones such as tourmaline, aquamarine, amethyst, agate, garnet and crystal quartz among others.
“There are industrial minerals such as marble, talc, kaolin, clay and feldspar; construction minerals such as granitic rocks, dimension stone, sand and laterite.
“Also available are Metallic Minerals such as columbite-tantalite (Coltan), cassiterite (tin ore) and gold among others,’’ he listed.
The minister said that the partnership would enhance the transformation of the rich minerals endowment of Oyo state into wealth for the peace and prosperity of the good people of the state in particular and Nigerians at large.
He added that sustaining the mutual synergy would pave way for an increase in revenue and the creation of employment opportunities for teeming unemployed youths.
Other benefits of such partnership, according to the minister, is the economic empowerment of the host mining communities “which will lead to a reduction in poverty levels of our rural communities’’.
Ogah informed Gov. Makinde about the Federal Government’s vision to build a prosperous economy, eradicating corruption and provide security for all.
“In pursuing this vision, the Federal Government is implementing policies aimed at diversifying the nation’s economy, away from dependence on.
“Today, the Federal Government is committed to growing the minerals and metals sector to an optimal production level.
“Our primary goal is to use the industry as a springboard for the generation of well-paying jobs for our teeming unemployed youth population, create wealth and empowerment for our rural community dwellers,’’ the minister said.
Ogah further hinted at efforts toward enhancing government revenue-generating capacity, the supply of mineral raw materials for industrial and economic development, and increasing foreign exchange earnings for the country.
He also said that the government was focusing on ensuring orderly and efficient mining of the seven priority minerals in the mining roadmap.
The minister the minerals to include coal, bitumen, limestone, iron ore, barites, gold and lead/zinc ore.
He appreciated the Oyo State Government for donating two hectares of land for the gemstone market.
Ogah pointed out that the development showed the state government’s commitment toward enhancing the development of the solid minerals sector and increase Responding, Gov. Makinde acknowledged that the mineral resources, if well harnessed, would improve the nation’s revenue earnings.
He said that the state was ready to support national aspiration on mining sector development, which, according to him, necessitated the provision of two hectares of land for the gemstone market in the Akinyele area of the state.

Share this on WhatsApp