Share this on WhatsApp
 


Some residents of Ikorodu area of Lagos State have applauded the Commissioner of Police in the state, Hakeem Odumosu, for decongesting the popular Ikorodu roundabout following reports of constant attacks by suspected criminals.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the state police command recently deployed more of its officers to clear the ever crowded roundabout aimed at curtailing criminalities at the area.
The residents told NAN that many commuters had been victims to crimes at the roundabout, adding that the presence of the police has made it difficult for hoodlums to use the area as hideout.
“This measure will bring relief to us, particularly commuters and other road users,” the said.
A resident, Mr Banwo Folagbade, said that hoodlums used the congested roundabout as hide out to perpetrate evil.
Folagbade said many people have lost their valuables in different attacks by the hoodlums who had turned the place to a safe haven.
He said that the roundabout had become a black spot, posing grave danger especially in evenings and during early hours of the day.
“I was going to the office very early in the morning as a banker one day and on getting to the roundabout, hoodlums accosted me and collect my money, phone and laptop.
“In fact when I saw the work done by the police in decongesting this place, I am happy with the hope that people will now be relieved,” he said.
Mr Sesan Oduolowu, a business man, said Ikorodu had witnessed increase in criminality, attributing it to activities of cultism and use of hard drugs by youths.
Oduolowu noted that most of the time, cult activities usually result to violence, unrest, stealing and pick pockets in various parts of the community.
He, however, urged security agencies to go after those who deal in hard drugs, especially Indian hemp, adding that sales of hard drugs should be controlled to reduce criminality in Ikorodu.
“I will advise security agencies to clampdown on hard drugs sales within Ikorodu community, saying this would reduce crime drastically.
Mrs Mariam Tijani, also expressed her delight over the decongestion, saying that motorists would now have it easy to convey passengers.
“I think the security agencies have done a great job here. What we need is continuous enforcement so that they will not come back.
“At last, the road is free from criminals and they will not use here as their hideout any longer,” she said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp