Share this on WhatsApp
 


The presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (ACC), Omodele Sowore, on Monday, accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, of funding internal uprising in the ACC. Sowore at the INEC Headquarters, Abuja, alleged that Governor Wike funded a faction of the ACC in the sum of N100 million to destabilise the party and reinforce the faction to attack him or push him out of the party.
Sowore was at the INEC Headquarters to submit a letter for recognition as ACC national chairman. Coincidentally, the ACC acting national chairman, Leonard Ezenwa, also stormed the INEC office to resist Sowore. He said that the ACC suspended Sowore from the party for anti-party activities. Ezenwa alleged that Sowore was using the party to make money for himself.
Ezennwa stated that the court upheld him as ACC national chairman, saying that Sowore went to the Appeal Court but lost, went to the Supreme Court and also lost.
Sowore, however, insisted he is still a member of the party, declaring that no one can send him out of the party he registered.
“Nobody can disown the owner of the house. The INEC is using them to send me out of the party. When they could not succeed, on august 23rd, 2019, I was arrested. While I was in detention, they did a fraudulent convention claiming they have suspended me from the party. I registered the party in 2018, and the certificate of registration is with me.
“They said they have expelled me from the party that I created; is that possible,” Sowore declared as his supporters shouted no!
Sowore maintained: “but we know the game. As they were doing that, INEC was funding them; Wike in Port Harcourt because of the guy who used our platform for his own election, was also funding them. Wike funded them to the tune of N100 million, you can quote me,” Sowore stated.
Leonard Ezenwa, national chairman of the African Action Congress (AAC), said that Sowore was not the only person suspended from the AAC, noting that there are others.
Both Sowore and Ezenwa caused pandemonium at the INEC Headquarters while the police and other security operatives were at alert.
Sowore threatened that if INEC does not recognize him as AAC national leader, his supporters will occupy the INEC offices across the country and sustain protests in the various states.
Share this on WhatsApp