Share this on WhatsApp
 


Tunisia and Libya agreed to give a new impetus to commercial activity between them, according to a joint statement published on Wednesday on the official page of the Tunisian presidency, marking the end of an official visit to Libya by the Tunisian President Kais Saeid.
They have also agreed to develop an action plan to activate investments by facilitating transit procedures and financial procedures between their central banks.
During this visit, the Tunisian head of state held talks with the new president of the Libyan Presidential Council, Mohammed al-Manfi, in the presence of his two vice-presidents, Abdallah al-Lafi and Moussa al-Koni, at Al Dhiafa Palace in the Libyan capital, Tripoli.
According to the statement, Saeid’s visit reflects the fraternal relations and the historical and exceptional links between Libya and Tunisia and is part of the coordination between the two countries.
“This important visit is also part of the Tunisian president’s desire to be among the first to congratulate the Libyan Presidential Council and Government of National Unity, following the vote of confidence obtained from the Parliament and the day after the official assumption of office of the two executive authorities, during historic ceremonies that enshrine the principle of peaceful alternation of power,” the statement added.
According to the statement President Saeid’s visit to Libya also reflects the common will to strengthen consultations and coordination between their leaders who share visions aimed at reinforcing an exceptional cooperation and a solid partnership that meet the aspirations of the two peoples for stability and development.
According to the statement, the talks between President Saeid and the Libyan authorities focused mainly on the future performance of the two countries, especially on development and economic issues.
The two sides also agreed to exchange experiences and intensify cooperation in various fields by speeding up the holding of joint higher committees to meet the expectations of their peoples.
Trade is also important for the economy of both countries. In 2018, it amounted to 1.2 billion Tunisian dinars (US$373 million).
 
Share this on WhatsApp