Share this on WhatsApp
 


The President, Down Syndrome Foundation Nigeria (DSFN), Mrs Rose Mordi, has appealed  to the Federal Government to intensify efforts toward the  implementation of  the Disability law for itto make impact in the country.
Mordi, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in commemoration of the World Down Syndrome Day on Monday in Lagos, said the law had not in any way impacted on the lives of People Living with Disabilities (PWDs).
She said that PWDs still suffer a lot of discomforts because infrastructure development in the nation had not captured their needs.
Mordi urged government to pay more attention to the welfare of PWDs and accommodate them in all spheres of government’s development plans to enable them have equal opportunities such as others in the society.
She called for a legislation that would make sure that Nigeria is disability friendly.
According to her, signing of the Disability Act into law is quite commendable, but its implementation is key. The effects of the law are  not yet felt as PWDs are still suffering the same challenges.
Mordi, therefore, called for the implementation of laws that can protect the interest of the PWDS to reduce stress in their daily lives.
NAN reports that President Muhammadu Buhari had in January 2019 signed the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act into law.
“The act criminalises all forms of discrimination against people living with disabilities in the country and enforces their rights and privileges to education, healthcare, priority in accommodation and emergencies.
“It prohibits discrimination against the physically challenged in public transportation facilities, including seaports, railways and airports, and compels service providers to make adequate provisions for them.
“Unfortunately, the provisions of the law has not been implemented as PWDs are still suffering the same challenges, discrimination and denials.
“Signing the Act into law without enforcing its implementation is like a ‘toothless bull dog’ – until the law is implemented, its impact will not be felt by either the PWDs or the society.
“Government should know that everybody is not the same, as some people have special needs, particularly, people with some peculiar physical disabilities.
“Hospitals, schools, banks, ATM points, public buildings must have some special arena, where people with wheel chairs can be made comfortable.
“Apart from that, all the medications of the seriously disabled children and adults should be free,” she said.
She urged the government to increase the employment quota for PWDS as well as those from poor backgrounds.
The DSFN President also called on government to place caregivers/parents of PWDs on allowances in line with global practices, to reduce stress on those involved.
“In the developed world, if you have a child with special needs or disability, everything about  that child is free; you are even paid to look after such a  child.
‘’You are given wheel chairs and every other things the child needs,” she added.
Mordi emphasised the need to bridge the gap and solve the problem of stigmatisation that could make some families to hide PWDs particularly children with Down Syndrome or even take their lives.
According to her, the Foundation has been on advocacy campaigns sensitising parents on the need to bring out such children and cater for them as they are often endowed with various skills/abilities.
She also encouraged parents of children with disabilities to ignore the social stigma on the PWDs and focus on how to groom the children for better opportunities in future.
 
Share this on WhatsApp