Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday revealed that drug barons are responsible for the sponsorship of terrorism and banditry in Nigeria. 
Senate President Lawan hosting the Chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brigadier-General Buba Marwa, on a visit to his office at the National Assembly, Abuja, on Thursday, disclosed that the proceeds of the illegal drug trade are used to purchase arms and ammunition for terror groups like Boko Haram, including bandits and kidnappers.
The Senate President decried that drug traffickers have made Nigeria a major transit route, noting that this stimulated the increase of criminality in the country.
Lawan declared: “The National Assembly members are almost on daily interaction with our constituents, and we know the very debilitating impact of drug abuse in our various communities.
“You have rightly said almost every community in this country suffers from drug addiction. So, we are very mindful of what is happening.
“I believe that this agency needs restructuring. Now that you have taken over, we should go the whole haul to restructure the agency, not piecemeal touches, because we need to get it right.
“My opinion is that NDLEA should be in the league of EFCC, ICPC, and therefore, the kind of support that those two agencies I mentioned receive, you should receive something like that, in addition to many other things that you should be supported with.
“So, the National Assembly will definitely work with you, we will partner with you, and will ensure that we do our best to give you the kind of support that will enable you properly discharge your mandate.
“Having said this, let me say that Nigeria as a country is in one way or the other a transit route for drugs.
“Drug peddlers pass their drugs through Nigeria – cannabis, heroin, and possibly even cocaine.
“We believe that this has to stop because the proceeds of such activities fund terrorism, they fund banditry, you wonder how the bandits have RPGs and these massive arms that they have.
“Definitely, these are some acquisitions provided by some barons, not the bandits themselves.
“So, we need to ensure that this transit role that Nigerians plays is addressed properly. And here we have to approach this through multi-sectoral efforts – the Customs, Immigration Service, our Security Agencies, and in fact, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, and our seaports.
“Of course, this is not going to be easy, but we have to be steadfast, and we should do whatever is possible without the limited resources we have to make you better,”
The NDLEA Chairman decried the increasing drug addiction in Nigeria among youths. Buba Marwa promised to work hard to rid the country of illicit drug deals and consumption, which he noted has caused serious damages and devastation to the country’s social system. He stated that the illegal drug trade has played a great role in the rise of criminality in Nigeria.
 
Share this on WhatsApp