Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Veteran Nollywood actor, Pete Edochie, is not afraid—or ashamed—to bare his mind of culture clashes. Anywhere.
For the umpteenth time, Edochie slammed women sold on feminism, and blame many of them for their marital woes.
In a recent interview with BBC Igbo Service, Edochie said the western culture that worships women has destroyed most of what feminism stands for in Africa.
“These women are schooled but a lot of wives now can’t even cook — one thing that a woman should be good in so as to be able to keep her husband,” he said.
“Women who can’t cook aren’t supposed to call themselves women.”
He also spoke about intelligence, a controversial issue about who is smarter between a man and a woman.
“To be honest, the understanding of women is low. I’m not a misogynist but I’ve associated with them a lot, even at work,” he said.
For that reason, he sees no reason in te Hollywood culture of men on all fours when proposing.
“We don’t worship women as the whites do. Kneeling to put a ring on a woman’s hands is not our culture. Any man who does that transfers the headship of his family to that woman. Until my dad died at 96, he never knelt to propose.”
To the 74-year-old, kneeling down means subjecting to a higher authority.
With this clash of cultures, domestic violence is inevitable. He condemns it. Though he will always blame most women when their husbands hit them.
“You complain to a woman and she retorts. It becomes unbearable, so you stretch your arm and deal her a slap. Domestic violence starts,” he said.
“It wasn’t like that in our days. How women talk to men nowadays isn’t how we were raised. My mother was never beaten. My wife and I have been married for 52 years. I never beat her. My five married sons don’t beat their wives.”
It’s his own culture, and a norm, as a black man, that women, when married, must take their humble place.
“Once a woman leaves her parents to meet her husband and take his surname, she is to be submissive to him,’ he said.
If she wasn’t married, Edochie believes, she could be as feminist as she wanted.
Share this on WhatsApp