Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Oodua people congress (OPC), has warned popular Yoruba activist, Sunday Igboho to be careful of former aviation minister, Femi Fani-Kayode over some of his antics.
The OPC issued the warning on Wednesday after Fani-Kayode alleged that the old man arrested by the OPC as Isikilu Wakili, is not the real Wakili, urging them to work with Igboho to get the real wanted Fulani bandit who is still at large.
In a lengthy message to FFK, the OPC described him as a political agent who is very close to prominent northern leaders, and using his reputation to foment trouble via his social media.
“I am using this opportunity to advise my brother, Sunday Igboho to be wary of Fani- Kayode’s antics and deceit because he is so smart in causing disunity in Yorubaland”.
“Wakili’s story is a testimony of what OPC can achieve as a group with formidable structures across the country. So, in our desire to rid the southwest of criminal herders and kidnappers, we are determined to complement the efforts of the police and other security outfits.
“Fani- Kayode has a reputation for using his social media page to foment trouble and cause disunity in Yorubaland. He had once said that Yoruba language was Anago. How can you take such a person too seriously?”.
“I remembered former president Olusegun Obasanjo had said it once that Fani-Kayode can do anything for money and survival. He lives in Abuja, romancing with the north, yet he was the first to refute the claim that the kidnaper was not Wakili. Where did he get his information”? Olumo queried.
“With his untenable claim, I know and I am sure that the former minister is doing the bid of his paymasters, who are majorly from the north. He is the undisputed spokesperson of any politician that is ready to feather his nest”.
“He should be warned to stop drumming the beat of disunity in Yorubaland. Fani-Kayode was one of the few people that called and congratulated our leader, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams on Monday, on the success of the operation of the OPC, and the following day, he twisted the story refuting the claim that the man apprehended wasn’t Wakili”
Share this on WhatsApp