Share this on WhatsApp

 


A Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan on Wednesday dissolved a 20-year-old marriage between Taiwo Badmus and her husband, Musiliu Badmus in the interest of peace.
The President of the court, Chief Ademola Odunade said that he could not turned down Taiwo’s prayers because of the issues raised by her, which were not denied by Musiliu.
Odunade said that Musilu’s prayers that the marriage should be saved were late as Taiwo had made up her mind to quit the union.
Odunade granted custody of the children to Taiwo and ordered Musiliu to pay N15,000 as monthly upkeep to the three children of the union.
Besides, he told Musiliu to be responsible for the children’s education and other basic needs.
Taiwo, a jewelry trader, had approached the court to terminate the 20-year-old marriage on grounds of psychological and emotional torture by Musiliu.
Taiwo, who lives in Olohunssogo area of Ibadan, told the court that her ex-husband had also extended the torture to her parents and relatives.
She said that Musiliu, on many occasions, insulted her parents.
“Musiliu is never happy with any step I take in the house, he keeps nagging.
“He does not want me to have anything to do with my relatives and parents because he would nag whenever he hears about them.
“Musiliu often beat me mercilessly whenever I visit my sibling, who just returned from the United States of America.
“Besides, he locks up our three children at home, thus preventing them from going to school,” she said.
According to her, whenever I’m not at home, Musiliu sleeps with a woman, known as Mama Toyin, who lives opposite our apartment.
“Our neighbours told me about it and Musiliu often admit having an affair with Mama Toyin whenever he is quarrelling with me.
“Before I married him, Musiliu was nothing, but I got him a driving job and soon became a terror in my life,” she said.
Musiliu, who did not deny any of the allegations leveled against him, opposed the dissolution of the marriage.
Musiliu told the court that at no time did he quarrel with his ex-wife.
He prayed the court to save the marriage and promised to be of good behaviour.
 
Share this on WhatsApp