Share this on WhatsApp
The Lagos Assembly  Committee on Local Government Administration and Community Development, has frowned at the poor state of projects executed in Iba Local Council Development Area (LCDA).

The committee Chairman Hon. Olawale Olayiwola representing Mushin II constituency in his assessment after the oversight visit round some LGAs in Lagos on Tuesday specifically scored the Chairman of Iba LCDA, Hon. Ramota Adedayo Oseni low over poor execution of projects.

Olawale expressed his displeasure over the projects in question, “I am not impressed with the state of things in Iba LCDA, look at a project that was completed in 2018 (refering to Iba Estate Primary school), look at the classrooms where children are learning, we are summoning the contractor to Alausa to come and explain to us “.

The committee also raised eye brow on some ongoing projects  at Iba LCDA which was its first port of call, for which full payments have been made while the projects are yet to be completed, suspected contract inflation and other irregularities.

“We like to see the Vice Chairman of the council, the Procurement Officer, the Legal Officer, the Council Engineer and the contractors at Alausa on the 1st of April, 2021 to clarify certain things regarding some projects.

Responding to the observations raised by the house committee,  the Chairman of the LCDA, Hon.  Ramota Adedayo Oseni, a former lawmaker said the report presented by the Council Engineer, Engr. Wesu Medese was not a true reflection of things as she was still new in the LCDA.

Concerning some of the completed projects particularly Iba Estate Primary school which was already in bad shape, she said , “I am not an engineer, when this project was constructed I was here to inspect it, everything was okay, other projects done same time are still intact, how the pupils here have managed to bring this to this state is what I don’t understand”. She lamented

According to the committee Chairman, the essence of the visit to the LGAs was to examine and inspect projects done by the LGAs and ask questions where necessary.

“We wil be more concerned about health and education related projects. we are here to also find out the kind of relationship that exist between the council and the National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) and the councillors who are major stakeholders in the LG administration.

However, the chairman and the committee members gave Ojo Local Government a pass mark for good presentation and projects done, asking the LGA to improve on certain areas mentioned.

Other committee members on the tour were Hon. Kehinde Joseph, representing Alimosho II, Hon. Rasheed Makinde, representing Ifako-Ijaiye II, Hon. Nureni Akinsanya representing Mushin I, and Hon. Age Sulaimon representing Amuwo- Odofin I.

The chairman of Ojo LGA, Alhaji Rasulu Olusola Idowu appreciated the committee for the observations raised while promising that the council would improve on the grey areas mentioned.
Share this on WhatsApp