Share this on WhatsApp
 


The former Commissioner for Education in Ebonyi, Mr Ndubuisi Chibueze-Agbo, has called for the inclusion of approved private educational institutions in Federal Government’s education grants.
Chibueze-Agbo made the call on Friday at the 20th anniversary of Mandate Secondary School and 10th anniversary of United for Jesus Ministry (UJM) at Umuagara, Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state.
He said that including the private schools as part of the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) and Tertiary Education FUND (TETFUND) would improve teaching and learning.
He further said that the measure would enhance research work in privately-owned tertiary institutions.
According to him, the education system in the country is on decline and needs the contribution of private schools to feel in the gaps left by poorly performing public schools.
Chibueze-Agbo said that government should help owners of approved notable and serious private schools to improve their infrastructure and output.
He said that government could do so by extending the grants and loans given to UBEC and TETFUND to private schools or set up a separate commission for private schools.
Chibueze-Agbo, who is the president and founder of UJM, also appealed to parents to give better attention to the education of their children.
He said the education ministry was founded to help inculcate morals in the students to make them better citizens.
Education without morality is zero hence the resolve of our team to leverage the church and education to give our children and humanity the best.
This is the first step ttowards solving the security and other social problems facing the country presently.
The Executive Chairman of Ohaukwu Local Government Area, Mr Clement Odah, commended Chibueze-Agbo for his doggedness in making the school one of the best in the state.
He underscored the need for government at all levels to pay attention to education.
“Education is power and the future of the world, that is what makes the world’s ‘Super Powers’ what they are today.
“But in Nigeria, we don’t give education the priority it deserves.
“If government gives attention to education, as the proprietor of this school has done, the country will be better”, Odah said.
Share this on WhatsApp