Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) says it has signed a new Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN).
The Chairman, STOAN, Princess Vicky Haastrup, said in a statement in Lagos on Friday that the agreement was to enhance welfare of dockworkers operating at the ports across the country.
According to her, the latest Collective Bargaining Agreement signed at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) headquarters will lead to an increase in the wages, allowances and retirement benefits payable to the dockworkers.
She said that the agreement would be operational for three years.
Recall that since the ports were concessioned in 2006, the port terminal operators under the aegis of STOAN have been steadfast in improving the welfare of dockworkers, who before the port concession, had no condition of service and were poorly paid.
STOAN members had ensured the renewal and implementation of the Collective Bargaining Agreement every three years, thereby ensuring the progressive increase in the remuneration of dockworkers.
Haastrup, who led other members of STOAN to sign the agreement with the union, said that terminal operators had ensured industrial harmony at the seaports since 2006 by prioritising the welfare of dockworkers.
“We are happy as employers of labour to give the dockworkers the wages they rightly deserve. It is always our joy to bring succour and joy into the hearts of our workers.
“Before the 2006 port concession, the monthly income of an average dockworker was less than five thousand naira, but today, we make bold to say that we now pay our dockworkers very well.
Our dockworkers are now well respected and well compensated for the work they do. This is because we acknowledge dockworkers as the bedrock of port operation.
“Before we became their employers, dockworkers were not respected. They were seen as troublemakers and thugs at the ports. But today, we have worked together with the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria to change the narrative.
“Dockworkers are professional quayside workers who are vital to port operation. They are essential workers and we are happy to treat and remunerate them as such.
“I am proud to say that the present crop of dockworkers at the various ports across the country are well trained and they conduct themselves professionally,” she said.
Also, the President-General of MWUN, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, commended the Federal Government for concessioning the ports to private terminal operators.
|
Adeyanju said the port concession programme had impacted positively on the lives of port workers through the improved welfare package instituted by terminal operators.
He said that prior to the port concession in 2006, the wages of dockworkers were “nothing to write home about” but all that had changed since the concessionaires – terminal operators took over.
“The era of using dockworkers as slaves in their fatherland no longer exists. We want to thank the Federal Government for concessioning the ports because that reform has changed the lives of dockworkers all over the nation’s seaports.
“Before concessioning, the wages of dockworkers was nothing to write home about. In those days, an average dockworker that worked for eight hours a day would go home with four thousand naira at the end of the month.
”We used to have stevedoring contractors but they did not care about the welfare of the workers. Some of the stevedoring contractors even ran away with the pensions of dockworkers.
“But since the terminal operators came in, we have seen the difference between the stevedoring contractors of those days and the terminal operators of today and my happiness today is to see dockworkers retire with something reasonable as retirement benefit,” he said.
Also, NIMASA Executive Director, Cabotage and Maritime Labour leader, Victor Ochei, commended STOAN and MWUN for signing the new agreement.
He urged all concerned to ensure full implementation of the agreement for the benefit of the dockworkers.
Share this on WhatsApp