Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The perennial intractable violent crimes in the north have continued to generate controversies and apprehension across the country. The controversies are beginning to generate two hypotheses on the capacity of President Muhammadu Buhari to perform his duties as the Commander-In-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces, and/or sabotage of the president by people appointed to perform specific duties.
A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yunusa Abubakar, on Tuesday categorically declared that there are a lot of Judas in the Nigerian Presidency working for the failure of President Buhari.
Hon. Abubakar speaking on the insecurity challenges in Nigeria on Channels Television morning programme -Sunrise Daily – monitored from Lagos on Tuesday, highlighted that there are varieties of people in the Buhari administration, some working against the interest of the government and the ruling party – the All Progressives Congress (APC).
The member of the House of Representatives articulated that if he were to be the presidency, he will have close monitor of all the people appointed to head the various agencies of government and ensure they are performing their responsibilities according to the mandate of their appointments. He pointed out that in the Buhari administration, some political appointees of the president have elevated themselves from the level of advisers or special assistants to the status of ministers, essentially, those in the presidency. This, he said, is being done with ease because there is no oversight function from within.
The federal lawmakers declared that if he was to be the president of Nigeria, anyone found to have failed delivering on his/her mandate should be shown the way out of the government. He reiterated that President Buhari is being betrayed by people in government, including APC members, arguing that the violent crimes have been sustained because of the betrayal of the president.
Hon. Abubakar stated that there was no reason for certain APC leaders to avoid going back home for the party’s membership revalidation or registration during the APC national membership drive because of the high wave of crimes and insecurity in their local government. he noted that people resident there have means of moving and still survive.
 
Share this on WhatsApp