Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may jettison the zoning arrangement in the 2023 presidential election, National Daily has gathered.
It was gathered that the Review Committee, led by Bauchi state governor, Bala Mohammed in its report submitted on Wednesday advised that the ticket should be given based on merit rather than zonal consideration.
The Governor Mohammed-led committee was set up to study the circumstances that led to the party’s loss of the 2019 election and proffer solutions for a future victory. It submitted the report yesterday.
The report reads in part: “In line with certain unwritten conventions of the nation’s history, many people think that, for fairness and equity, the Northeast and Southeast geo-political zones that have had the shortest stints at the Presidency, should be given special consideration, in choosing the presidential flag bearer of the party for the 2023 elections.
“While we admit that this is a strong argument, we should not lose sight of the fact that Nigeria is endowed with many capable and very experienced leaders in every part of the country.
“Moreover, the exigencies of the moment demand that nothing should be compromised in choosing the leader, with the attributes to disentangle the country from its present quagmire.
“Therefore, we think that every Nigerian, from every part of the country, should be given the opportunity to choose the best candidate, through a credible primary election; as a way of institutionalising a merit-based leadership recruitment process for the country.
“The summary of our report is that the party must promote practices that will deepen democracy, promote national unity and inspire greater faith in our country, especially, among the youth and the several stakeholder groups yearning for inclusion”.
The committee urged the PDP to key into generational and gender shifts sweeping across the globe and the emergence of a new generation of Nigerians who are not held down by religion, ethnicity or such other primordial considerations but who are determined to mainstream the country into global best practices.
It further advised the PDP to push for either a review or an endorsement of the 2014 Constitutional Conference Report or organise a new constitutional conference.
The committee encouraged the PDP to canvass genuine restructuring to foster decentralisation, engenders national unity, guarantee the security of lives and property of Nigerians, no matter where they reside in the country.
National Chairman Uche Secondus, who received the report said: “Relying on the recommendations of this report, the NWC will work with think tanks, consultants and all critical stakeholders of our great party to enhance the new PDP narratives that will help address the yawning absence of leadership in the country.
According to him, the report would form the bedrock of the party’s plan ahead of 2023 general elections.
Other members of the committee are Senator Eyinaya Abaribe; Ex-Niger State Governor Babangida Aliyu, Senator Stella Omu and Emmanuel Agbo (Secretary).
Share this on WhatsApp