Share this on WhatsApp
 


9mobile, a  telecommunication company, says mental health needs to be given top priority, especially in the face of unprecedented loss, anxiety and disruption occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Abdulrahman Ado, Executive Director, Regulatory and Corporate Affairs, 9mobile,  in a statement on Monday said that  COVID-19 had exerted heavy toll and triggered a spike in stress and anxiety-induced depression in people.
Hence, the need to champion conversations around mental health.
He said: “As a business that cares about the wellbeing of its customers, it has become imperative for us to champion conversations around the issue of mental health.
“This is especially at a time when the world is going through one of the deadliest pandemics in history.
“COVID-19 has exerted  such heavy toll and triggered a spike in stress and anxiety-induced depression in people”.
“It is in light of this that we have teamed up with the Executive Director of She Writes Woman,  Hauwa Ojeifo, to facilitate frank conversations around mental, emotional, and psychological health.’’
Ado said that the conversation, a health talk series , is part of 9mobile’s efforts to cushion the mental health impact of COVID-19 and curb the increasing rate of depression in the country.
According to him, the  maiden edition of the health talk series, themed “COVID-19 and the new normal: Staying mentally healthy in the face of the challenges” will be on Thursday, March 25, 2021.
“The session which will be streamed live on the Instagram page of Instablog9ja on Thursday, March 25, 2021 at 7pm will feature Hauwa Ojeifo, rights advocate and Executive Director at She Writes Woman.
“Hauwa Ojeifo will discuss the concept and scope of mental health, signs, and symptoms, dealing with stigma and trauma associated with mental health and when and where to get help.
“With the session, we hope to empower Nigerians with the right information on how to respond effectively to issues surrounding mental health.
“We also hope that this effort will play a significant role in cutting the number of suicide-related deaths resulting from depression,’’ he said.
While reiterating the company’s continued commitment to initiatives that drive positive change, Ado added that the health talk series aligns with 9mobile’s focus on health as one of its strategic pillars for social intervention.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that, according to findings by the World Health Organisation, an estimated one in eight Nigerians suffer from mental illness with anxiety being the most common mental illness. ‘
Experts believe that with more education and awareness around the issue, people will be informed on how best to manage their mental health and seek timely help where needed.
Share this on WhatsApp