Share this on WhatsApp

 


Nollywood actress, Stephanie Okereke-Linus, has released a new short film, “The Student’, which creates awareness against sexual and gender-based violence (GBV).
The renowned actress, who frown at sexual and GBV issues that have become a thing of concern, took to her instagram handle @stephanielinus in a video clip, to announce the movie to fans and Nigerians, where she condemned the act in tertiary institutions.
“There is help available! The prevalence of sexual harassment of female students in tertiary institutions is worrisome.
“Many students are threatened with exam failure or other disturbing consequences if they refuse to succumb.
“In this short film, we attempt to capture a scenario of how a young girl was able to get out of the trap of harassment.
“Sexual harassment thrives when perpetrators are able to subject their victims into silence.
“I would like to say to every young girl who might be experiencing this in one form or the other – you have a voice, and it is time to use it!
“Click on the link above to watch the short film and let’s have a conversation about your thoughts in the comment section,” she wrote.
‘The Student’, a movie that called to action short film created by Linus and scripted by Adeola Adeyemo, followed the story of Jumi.
Jumi, a high-flying student, who fell victim to a lecturer with a history of sexual harassment.
The movie, which was directed by Chinedu Ben, also featured some film stars like Mary Agholor, Samuel Abah and Beshel Francis, among others.
‘The Student’ movie project, which was supported by @UNFPA, happens to be the second project of Linus’ productions for UNFPA’s campaign on sexual and GBV.
The movie followed her ‘Hey Woman’ monologue which debuted on March 1, celebrating International women’s day.
Stephanie Okereke-Linus is a Nigerian actress, film maker and entrepreneur.
She is the Executive Director of Extended Hands Foundation, a non-governmental organisation which helps to facilitate free treatment for women and girls with obstetric fistula.
Her natural acting abilities and tenacity have earned her the reputation of one of the best actresses in Nollywood and African continent at large.
The renowned actress’ career rocketed ever since she debuted as an actress in the 1997 Nigerian movies, ‘Compromise 1 & 2 and ‘Waterloo’.
Linus has starred in more than 100 movies and has received several awards and nominations for her work.
After years of absence from the screen, Stephanie Okereke launched back with a feature in a Hollywood movie, ‘Boonville Redemption’ in 2016.
She acted as Doris, a compassionate lady who formed a bond with a young girl in search of her father and she featured alongside Edward Asner, Emily Hoffman and many other Hollywood actors.
Some of the movies she featured includes: ‘Compromise’ , ‘Waterloo’, ‘Pretender’, ‘ Private Sin’, ‘Emotional Crack’, ‘ ‘Critical Decision’, ‘Guys on toehind the Plot’, ‘Through the Glass’, ‘Nnenda’, ‘Dry’, ‘Boonville Redemption’ among others.
In 2015, the Nollywood actress and film maker started a TV reality show, ‘Make me Fabulous’, an unscripted, love filled and one-of-its-kind, that helps to rekindle the spark in marriages from newly-weds to old couples.
It takes the couples on transformational journey that give them the chance to connect without distractions.
Stephanie Okereke-Linus is also a brand ambassador for many organisations including the MINISO Nigeria, Green Valley Oatmeal.
In 2015, the National Democratic Institute appointed her as the ambassador for Stop Violence Against Women in Elections (STOP-VAWIE).
The award-winning actress was recently named the brand ambassador for Nollycasting, an online casting platform for personnel in various field including commercials, comedy etc.
The movie star is also an advocate for victims of human trafficking. In partnership with the international medical humanitarian organisation, she visited Italy to create an awareness on human trafficking and also gives hope to victims.
Stephanie Okereke-Linus has been recognised and awarded as Best Actress at ‘What a Year Awards 2003’, and Outstanding Actress at Afro-Dublin Awards 2004.
Others were Best Actress at Afro Hollywood Award 2006, Miriam Makeba Award for Excellence 2007 and Beyond the Tears Humanitarian Award 2008.
“Member of Order of the Federal Republic 2011, Movie with the Best Social Media at Best of Nollywood Awards 2015 and Best Actress in Leading Role at NAFCA 2016.
“Face of Nollywood (Female) at DALA Awards 2016, Best Supporting Actress at Truth Awards 2017 and Distinguished Leadership Award by Dillard University 2018.
She got married to Linus Idahosa in April 2012 and their marriage is blessed.
 
Share this on WhatsApp