Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Federal Road Safety Corps ( FRSC) says it will deploy a total of 25, 224 personnel to cover the various highways across the country with monitors deployed to ensure compliance to the operational guidelines of the special patrol scheduled to commence from 31 March and terminate on 7 April, 2021.
The deployment, according to Corps Public Education Officer, Assistant Corps Marshal Bisi Kazeem, is part of efforts at ensuring a safe and smooth 2021 Easter celebrations.
According to him, the deployed personnel include 7,100 Officers, 18,124 Marshals Inspectors and Road Marshal assistants 15,225 Special Marshals who would cover all the identified areas across the country.
“In addition, 580 patrol vehicles, 92 ambulances, 17 tow trucks and 73 motorbikes are being deployed as part of the patrol logistics,” he stated.
“Furthermore, 2,096 reflective jackets , 1,000 traffic crones, 73 tyre pressure gauges, a number of extricating machines and digital breathalyzers  are part of the tools set aside for the special operations,” Bisi further stated.
The Corps Public Officer further noted that as part of the strategies, a total of 22 Help Areas have been mobilised to ensure prompt removal of obstructions, death and injuries during the period.
This, he said, is in addition to the ten traffic control camps which would  be dedicated solely  to identifying traffic gridlock areas to be manned  by our personnel on a 24/7 basis during the Easter Celebration.
Kazeem added that Commanding Officers have been directed to liaise with other strategic stakeholders within their operational areas to secure the needed morale and logistics as well as security support.
He identified some of the stakeholders as Military formations (enroute or resident); the Nigeria Police (enroute or resident); DSS (enroute or resident); the Nigeria Immigration Service; the NSCDC (enroute or resident).
Others are Federal Ministry of Works and Housing; National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA); State Traffic Management Agencies; State owned NGO’s ambulance Services providers; National Network on Emergency Rescue Services (NNES); Federal Road Maintenance Agencies and Federal Fire Service.
“To this end, the Corps would carry out aggressive enforcement including conducting over 200 mobile court operations, with the aim of checking the following offences: Speed Limit Violations; Overloading Violations/ Physical distancing in vehicles, Tyre violations, and light signs violations including directional lights headlights, backlight and brake light and other others.
Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, expressed optimism that Nigerians would as usual, cooperate with members of the Corps and other security agencies as well as volunteers who would come out to assist the Corps in traffic management during the period, stressing that with the massive deployment of personnel and logistics and the envisaged public support, the celebration would be a huge success.
 
Share this on WhatsApp