Share this on WhatsApp
 


Cristiano Ronaldo and Portugal would have been three points clear at the top of Group A of the World Cup qualifiers if his “goal” against Serbia on Saturday was allowed.
Ronaldo thought his disallowed “goal” would have been enough to seal the three points for his country after Serbia came from two goals down to force a 2-2 draw against Portugal.
Ronaldo who was booked for pleading with the officials before eventually storming off the pitch few seconds to the full time whistle was left battered after his effort on goal was strangely disallowed.
Meanwhile, report reaching National Daily has revealed that Ronaldo and Portugal have finally received an apology from the referee responsible for failing to award the Juventus forward’s last-gasp winner against Serbia.
Understandably, Ronaldo has drawn criticism for throwing away the captain’s armband while storming off the pitch before the final whistle, but it was obvious that his emotions took a better part of him on such a big night.
Ronaldo’s goal would have stood after it appeared to have crossed the line
The apologies from referee Danny Makkelie may come as a little solace to Ronaldo and Portugal mostly if they are able to overcome Luxembourg today to boost their chances of their Qatar 2022 World Cup qualification.
National Daily further gathered that the Dutch referee Makkelie speaking to Portuguese outlet A Bola has however realized that his poor decision could jeopardize Portugal’s Qatar 2022 World Cup chances while revealing his sadness has now offered his apologies to Portuguese players and coaching staff.
“As per FIFA’s policies, all I can say is that I apologised to the national coach, Fernando Santos, and to the Portuguese team for what happened,”
“As a referee team, we always work hard to make good decisions. When we are in the news in this manner, it doesn’t make us happy at all.”
The disallowed goal was not only frustrating for Ronaldo, but also for his coach Santos who like his captain was furious after the goal was not given, thus denying them the chance to go top of World Cup Qualifiers Group A.
“It is not permissible that, in a competition like this, there is no VAR or goal-line technology,” said Santos.
“The ball was half a metre inside the goal, there was no obstacle between the goalkeeper and the goal line. It was very clear.
“The referees make mistakes, they are human, but this is what VAR exists for.”
Share this on WhatsApp