Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Oyo State Government on Wednesday approved the implementation of a mini-grid scheme to the tune of N575  million for rural communities to provide them with electricity supply.

Mr Seun Ashamu the State Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources disclosed this in Ibadan while briefing newsmen alongside the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism; Dr Wasiu Olatunbosun, on the outcome of the weekly state executive council meeting.

According to Ashamu, the council approved the implementation of the mini-grid scheme for rural communities with  economic activities but yet to be connected to the national grid.

He said the implementation would be carried out by four contractors, at a total N575 million.

“The first rollout of the scheme comprises one community each in four local government areas.

“These are:  Ajia community in Ona-Ara Local Government area; Otefo community in Atiba Local Government area; Shamu community in Iwajowa Local Government area and Orinsunmibare community in Ogbomoso South Local Government Area.

“Each of the mini-grid will be centred on a healthcare centre or school, also the mini-grid will serve other public facilities and serve residences in the benefitting communities,” he stated.

Ashamu further explained that the scheme was an independent power source.

“We recently announced that we are embarking on a transformer connection campaign for densely populated areas.

“But the places where the national grid has not yet been extended to will benefit from this mini-grid scheme.
“This is line with the rural and urban development agenda of the Makinde administration,” the commissioner said.

Also, the information commissioner disclosed that the council approved the procurement of aluminum sulphate chemicals for water treatment.

According to him, the procurement of 1,194 tons of aluminum sulphate, at the cost of N399,990,000 is to be used for proper water treatment, to produce good drinking water for residents of the state.

He added that the chemical would be distributed to all the branches of the state water corporation.

“This has confirmed that the Gov. Seyi Makinde led-administration is very passionate about the welfare of the people,” he stated.

Share this on WhatsApp