Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has sensitised marketers and exporters in Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara States on how to access Federal Government’s N50 billion Export Development Fund.
The Export Development Fund (EDF) is a grant rolled out by the federal government to support marketers and exporters affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Mr Ahmed Yahaya, the NEPC’s Trade Promotion Advisor and Head, Sokoto Smart Office said at the workshop on Tuesday in Sokoto that the government had so far released N5 billion of the amount.
Yahaya advised interested marketers and exporters in the zone to apply for the grant in order to expand their businessess.
He said business owners are required to register their companies with the regulatory agencies including NEPC, obtain tax clearance and other business transaction documents before applying through a dedicated portal.
Yahaya explained that the grant covers expenses for market tours, research or study tours on specific patronised goods, and meetings with business contacts in the export destinations by the Nigerian exporters.
The NEPC official urged traders and marketers in the zone to utilise the opportunity so as to reap the EDF benefits and other similar support lines, as their counterparts in other parts of the country.
He added that the opportunity is opened to both prospective and existing exporters nationwide.
According to him, the workshop was for all stakeholders in the processing and manufacturing industries as well as relevant government officials.
Yahaya appealed to youths and women entrepreneurs in the zone to take advantage of the opportunity to boost their businesses and living standards.
The lead facilitator, Alhaji Hassan Bala explained to the participants, the modalities of online application to access the funds as well as how to benefit from other programmes.
Bala who is also the Chairman of Sensi-Sensi Group of Companies, sensitized the participants on guidelines and best practices in packaging and labeling of products as a tool in market penetration strategy.
He said youths and women are critical to the diversification policy of the federal government, adding that the council would do everything it can to empower them.
”The idea of this workshop is to educate our exporters on accessing grants, basic principles of labelling and packaging so that their goods will meet international standards,” he said.
He urged the participants to take advantage of the workshop to prepare for the task ahead and educate others on African Common Market potential.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was attended by NEPC officials from states that make up the zone.
The event featured interactive sessions on NEPC activities, international trades and products registration.
 
Share this on WhatsApp