Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Acting Leader of the Afenifere, a pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, has raised fresh alarm that President Muhammadu Buhari has a personal agenda overriding his leadership of Nigeria. Chief Adebanjo in a media interaction, was cited to have said that President Buhari is “planning the complete takeover of the country by Fulani.” The Afenifere leader stated that President Buhari’s private agenda has been promoting or boldening the killer herdsmen in unleashing mayhem, invading communities, killing innocent citizens, destroying property, including farmlands, as well as perennial kidnappings across the country, essentially, in southern Nigeria. he decried that the president had abandoned his principles during his inauguration for first tenure in 2015 when he said that ‘he belonged to nobody but belonged to everybody’.
Adebanjo noted that President Buhari appeared to have shown covert solidarity and sympathy for the killer herdsmen, and by extension, the bandits ravaging the northwest. He recalled that the president while in Benue State told the indigenes to accommodate their neighbours or settlers rather than taking firm action on the violent Fulani herdsmen who have taken to the trade of killing innocent and unarmed Nigerian citizens.
Adebanjo disputed the speculated  agreement between President Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for the rotation of the president between the north and the southwest, saying that Buhari is deceiving Tinubu, maintaining that Buhari has an agenda of his own.
Adebanjo cited Buhari’s silence to outcries of threats to the breaking of Nigeria as sign of the president’s agenda to promote sectional interests.
According to Adebanjo: “We just have to keep talking. That is why people are being killed, and he sits in the Aso Rock. People were killed and kidnapped, and he said we should make friends with our neighbours, and another time, it was to appease kidnappers with government money…
“Why are we all living in denial? If the people in government are living in denial, what about the victims? If you live in denial, you will die in it. Young people won’t say Adebanjo didn’t warn them.”
He said that living in denial made people misinterpret certain public actions meant to restore peace in the country.
“If it’s not living in denial, Akeredolu asked herdsmen to vacate Ondo State forests reserved because of kidnapping and rape. They tried to change the narrative that he said Fulani people should leave the West. “When they are talking like that, they do not refer to the offence their people have committed. That is why I said Buhari has a private agenda,” Adebanjo had declared.
The Afenifere leader stated that if citizens don’t make the government realise they are no fools, they would be taking them for a ride. He lamented: “But some people kept quiet because they were getting the crumbs on the table.”
Adebanjo was of the view that the 2023 presidential ambition of Tinubu will not succeed. He berated Tinubu and the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, over what he considered two-faced politicians, saying that they failed to advocate for restructuring under the Buhari administration.
Adebanjo emphasized that President Buhari and Tinubu are deceiving themselves on the APC project and that the 2023 presidential ticket, insisting that Tinubu will fail if he contests the APC primary election.
Adebanjo had declared: “But they are deceiving themselves that Buhari would hand over to him since they supported him.
“…Buhari is deceiving Tinubu and Tinubu is deceiving Buhari.
“If Tinubu contests the primary in APC today, he will fail.”
Adebanjo also chided Vice President Osibnajo who he said has a volte-face on the advocacy for restructuring. The Afenifere leader disclosed that VP Osinbajo’s father was a vocal advocate of restructuring Nigeria, adding that VP Osinbajo was also a renowned advocate of restructuring before he became vice president.
“The vice-president and Tinubu are in the same boat. They are a product of restructuring. The current vice-president, who was the Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General of Lagos State, took the government of Obasanjo to court over the local government funds, and he won the case up to the Supreme Court.
“What has changed now? That is the man who now turns around to say, what do you mean by restructuring? Some of them even said those of us who are asking for restructuring are looking for a job.
“When I told him that his father and me were followers of Awolowo, he has not answered me. He was born into it, and he emphasised it as the Attorney General. Has the situation changed now that he is in Aso Rock, or there is something in the Aso Rock that turns their mind,” Adebanjo declared.
Share this on WhatsApp