Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The federal government imposition of Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine in athletes threatens the National Sports Festival scheduled to hold Benin City, Edo State. The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, had insisted that the 8,000 athletes participating in the National Sports Festival must be inoculated with the controversial Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine before admitted for the national sports festival.
Dare had declared that the 20th National Sports Festival in Edo will hold as scheduled between April 2 and April 14 under strict COVID-19 guidelines.
The Minister after facility inspection tour of the state, including holding a meeting with Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State in Benin City on Friday, insisted that the 8,000 athletes and officials listed for the sports festival must undergo all stipulated COVID-19 protocols.
Dare disclosed that the festival facilities would be open to athletes on April 2 but President Muhammadu Buhari would conduct the official opening of the Games on April 6.
“We are working closely with the PTF, NCDC and others to ensure that the necessary support we need in terms of vaccination of athletes, test kits will be available.
“We are also toning down the number of athletes that would be participating from 14,000 to 8,000.
“I must thank the governor and his deputy for taking the lead on this,” the minister stated.
Meanwhile, several Athletes are weighing the risk of the health hazards from the controversial Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine the government is imposing on them. Accordingly, many athletes are considering boycotting the National Sports Festival because of the imposition of vaccination by the Sports Minister
 
Some others were said to intend pulling out of the festival under the pretense of nursing injuries. A third category were said to have declared that they are out rightly withdrawing from the festival and, therefore, will not participate in the games.
 
The controversial Oxford-AstraZeneca Vaccine was detected to have diverse adverse effects of people who have been administered the vaccine for prevention of coronavirus infection. This compelled over 20 countries across the world including Germany, France, Netherlands, Australia, etc., will not participate and as such will halt the vaccination of their citizens with Oxford-AstraZeneca Vaccine. However, the Nigerian government ignored the high risks, insisting in continuation of the vaccine in the country. The fear of the perceived hazards of Oxford-AstraZeneca Vaccine is heightened by the suspicion that NAFDAC does not seem to have the capacity for thorough clinical assessment of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Vaccine to confirm its harmlessness or efficacy.
Apparently, the government may not get the attendance of all accredited athletes at the national sports festival in Edo State.
 
Share this on WhatsApp