Share this on WhatsApp
 


Chief Dan Orbih on Tuesday emerged as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) South South National Vice Chairman.
Orbih, who was returned unopposed at the party’s zonal congress which held at the Dr Obi Wali International Conference Centre, Port Harcourt, however polled 960 votes out of the 964 votes cast.
In his acceptance speech after the inauguration of the new leadership of the party in the zone, he pledged to reposition the party and make it stronger in 2023.
He assured that the new executive would not betray the trust and faith reposed in them by the delegates.
Orbih commended the PDP governors in the zone for continually keeping faith with the party.
He added that South South was proud of PDP governors in the zone whom he said had done well and shown that “if it’s not PDP, it’s not PDP’’.
He, however, accused the Federal Government of allegedly neglecting the zone and not allowing it proper representation in key appointments at the Federal level.
He said that the way forward was to sustain the growth of the party in the zone.
“All states in the zone are PDP and would remain so until presidency returns to the party.
“We can, and will achieve a lot through unity,” Orbih said.
Meanwhile, Gov. Godwin Obaseki scored the party in the zone excellent over the conduct of the Congress.
Obaseki, while speaking with news men shortly after casting his vote, said that the congress was well conducted.
He said that there was lot of work to be done by the new executive to ensure the party remained united in the zone and produces the next president of the country.
He said there was no rancour and the party was more than united than ever before contrary to people’s wrong speculations.
NAN reports that other members of the new executive elected include: Chief Tessy Toru, who emerged as Zonal Woman Leader, Mrs Evelyn Weke, Zonal Treasurer, and Mr Felix Omenu, Zonal Secretary.
Others are Bishop Ante, Zonal Publicity Secretary, Mr Lloyd Owonaru, Zonal Youth Leader, Mr Anthony Ikuenobe, Zonal Financial Secretary and Mr George Turnah, Zonal Legal Adviser among others.
Share this on WhatsApp