Share this on WhatsApp
 


Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday exchanged congratulations with Cameroonian President, Paul Biya, on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between both countries.
In his message, Xi said that over the past half a century since the establishment of their diplomatic ties, China and Cameroon have been standing side by side through thick and thin, and the traditional friendship between the two countries have been cordial.
In recent years, the friendly cooperative relations between the two countries have enjoyed a strong momentum of development with deepening political mutual trust and fruitful results in practical cooperation, Xi said.
The two countries have understood and supported each other on issues concerning each other’s core interests and major concerns, and have coordinated closely in international and regional affairs, he noted.
Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic, China has been working with Cameroon and other African countries to help and support each other in fighting the epidemic, which demonstrated the brotherly friendship between China and Africa that shares weal and woe, Xi said.
Xi emphasised that he attaches great importance to the development of China-Cameroon relations.
He expressed the willingness to work with Biya to take the opportunity of the 50th anniversary of the diplomatic ties to implement the outcomes of the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation and enhance their joint efforts to build the Belt and Road.
In his message, Biya said for a long time, with the efforts of the heads of state of the two countries, the friendly cooperative relations between Cameroon and China, which were mutually-beneficial and win-win, have been fruitful and continuously consolidated.
The fruits of cooperation between the two countries have made great contributions to enhancing the Cameroonian people’s well-being and helping Cameroon achieve national modernisation, Biya said.
Noting that the Chinese leadership is far-sighted and the Chinese people are diligent and brave, the Cameroonian president said that China has become a significant force on the international stage.
What is even more encouraging is that China has been attaching importance to South-South cooperation and supporting African countries in achieving development and vitalisation, Biya said.
Biya said he wished Cameroon-China cooperation becoming closer with a broader prospect to better the benefits of the two peoples.
 
Share this on WhatsApp