Share this on WhatsApp

 


A Medical Imaging Scientist, Dr Livinus Abonyi, says adequate water intake will help kidneys to function more efficiently and prevents kidney stones.
Abonyi, also a lecturer, Department of Medical Radiography, Faculty of Clinical Sciences, University of Lagos, College of Medicine, spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos.
According to him, any person who drinks water regularly is likely to look healthier and succulent than one who drinks water sparingly.
“H2O – two parts hydrogen and one part oxygen, also known as water, is one of the most essential elements to health.
“And, is so important that body actually has a specific drought management system in place to prevent dehydration and ensure survival.
“Water is essential to kidney functions; adequate water intake helps your kidneys work more efficiently and helps to prevent kidney stones.
“And on normal circumstance, an individual is expected to take three litres of water (on average) per day.
“However, the amount of water you need depends on a variety of factors: the climate you live in, how physically active you are, and whether you’re experiencing an illness or have any other health problems – all affect recommended intake.
“Diabetic, hypertensive and renal stone patients are expected to increase their intake of water, as well as all elderly people because their body are becoming more toxic,” he said.
The scientist advised people to endeavour to excrete waste products, particularly urine as and when due, saying that water helps to flush out infection through excretions.
He explained that person who holds urine was likely to suffer more infection/infectious diseases than one who urinates immediately he/she feels like to urinate.
“Water makes up more than two thirds of human body weight, and without water, one could die in few days.
“You need water to replenish the lost fluid from sweat. You also need enough water in your system to have healthy stool and avoid constipation.
“Your kidneys are also important for filtering out waste through urination.
“Believe it or not, your body weight is about 60 per cent water, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. A mere two per cent drop in our body’s water supply can trigger signs of dehydration.
“The human body uses water in all its cells, organs, and tissues to help regulate temperature and maintain other bodily functions.
“Because, the body loses water through breathing, sweating, and digestion; it’s important to rehydrate by drinking fluids and eating foods that contain water,” he advised.
 
Share this on WhatsApp