Share this on WhatsApp
 


Indeed, the testimonies from all over the world have begun to circulate.
By Judith Ogbiko
With the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris scheduled to commence in just a few hours, cities across all continents of the world are agog and the excitement is at fever-pitch as millions across all nations eagerly anticipate this epochal event.
Countless testimonials from those who have benefitted from the previous editions of this epochal program provide a clear picture of what people should expect from their participation in the upcoming event.

Fidelia Chukwu is healed of diabetes and a huge boil; she was revived and perfected as she received her miracle at the December 2020 Healing Streams Live Healing Services. Now, all the pain and limitations she suffered are gone!
“God answered my prayers with the Healing Streams Live Healing Services,” says Rosa Bastone from Canada who was healed of stage 4 cancer. She got up from her sick bed when the power of God was ministered to her through prayers, causing the cancer to dematerialize.
One particularly riveting testimony is that of Beatrice Jumbo who, for 19 long years, suffered in pain and constant discomfort because her right leg was shorter by 1.5cm. Because of this condition, her mobility was impaired, but Beatrice experienced a miracle during the Healing Streams Live Healing Services. Her legs grew out, and she is walking perfectly now!
Families, friendship circles, churches, organizations, and various groups all over the world have been vitally involved in preparations for this gargantuan event through various publicity stunts and propaganda, but most especially in prayers. The prayers have revealed myriad prophecies, many of which talk about the miracles for this particular set of Healing Streams Live Healing Services starting before the program.

Indeed, the testimonies from all over the world have begun to circulate. “I was feeling very painful piles, until my husband registered me for Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris. He did this without even telling me. He noticed I had stopped crying because of the pains. Three days later, he told me he had registered me for the program; that’s why the pains ceased,” a woman from Ghana attests.
Another person posted thus: “Recently, I noticed a lump on the left side of my rib cage. Though it wasn’t painful, I was alarmed. Then, my mind went to what Pastor said about the Live Healing Services, that healing would begin as people register. So, I registered immediately. When I woke up the following morning, the lump had totally vanished. My body is very normal again! Wow!”

Oh! What a glorious foretaste of glory divine! Have you registered for the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris? What are you waiting for? This is your appointed time for the miraculous!
Register NOW! www.healingstreams.tv/3days
Share this on WhatsApp