Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Oyo State chapter, has urged religious leaders in the state to avoid issues that may cause crisis.
The state CAN Chairman, Apostle Joshua Akinyemiju, gave the advice in a statement on Tuesday.
Akinyemiju said that the association’s attention had been drawn to an open letter written to Gov. Seyi Makinde by the Muslim Community, alleging christianisation of the state, particularly over the recent deployment of newly-recruited teachers to schools
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Muslim community had recently written the governor, claiming that Muslim teachers were rejected in some government-owned mission schools in the state.
However, CAN said, in the statement, that the circulated document was based on falsehood, stressing that it was an attempt to cause religious confusion and destabilise the ‘progressive administration’ of the state.
“CAN has painstakingly investigated the allegations of school principals in Oyo State rejecting Muslim teachers, particularly in Ibadan, including Ibadan Grammar School and Prospect High School, Aba-Nla, among others.
“It was reported that a Muslim teacher deliberately absconded at St. Theresa’s College, Oke Bola, after duly accepting her posting there.
“Also, Igbo Elerin Grammar School that was founded by amalgamation of Christian churches in the area was widely believed to be a community school because of the name it bears.
“Therefore, some Muslims thought it is one of the community schools where the use of Hijab should be allowed,” he said.
Akinyemiju called on religious leaders to be wary of rumours capable of causing crisis in the state.
According to him, with the turn of events in the education sector in the state, churches now has a renewed ground to call for total return of schools to original owners by government.
The cleric further noted that the cancellation of morning devotions and other Christian religious education in Muslim schools could limit the sound moral education needed to be instilled in the youth.
He also added that it could further compound the gross moral decadence currently being experienced in the society.
Akinyemiju expressed worries that uniformity in terms of school attire and introduction of religious dress code had been allowed to ignite crises and distort peace and tranquility in public schools.
According to him, government has not legalised the use of Hijab in any public school in the state, noting, however, that this is being disobeyed by many pupils, including those in mission schools.
Share this on WhatsApp