Typical Yahoo boys' party
        Share this on WhatsApp
 


After a feast of fried beef and beer at a birthday bash, no fewer than 20 people among the attendees died from complications whose causes are yet to be confirmed.
But suspicions have been mounting since the March 20 incident at Titi’s Concept in Alagole-Akute, in the outskirt of Lagos, under Ifo LGA, Ogun.
The celebrant, an unidentified advance-fee fraudster, is the main suspect.
The Yahoo Boy celebrating his birthday entered the pub, a rendezvous known for hosting fraudsters,  and declared free drinks for everybody, according to a report by Sahara Reporters.
He then announced his birthday, and hurried back to his car where he brought out a container full of beef, fried, for the drinkers to munch along.
One of those who missed out on the beef, but had drinks only is still alive to tell the story.
“My apprentice noticed his phone was missing. He wanted to capture the scene, make a video or take pictures and post but he couldn’t find his phone so he was more interested in getting the phone than the meat they were sharing,” a source around the bar told the online news platform.
“The bar attendants already gave him a bottle of beer paid for by the Yahoo boy and he drank from it before he left to look for his phone. Nothing happened to him, I think whatever caused the death should be the meat because he brought it out from the booth of his car, no one knows where he got it from.”
At least 20 of the beef eaters died after vomiting blood all night, according to the apprentice.
“From what I heard, at midnight, they would wake up and say, we ate last at City Concept, start vomiting blood and die. Like 25 of them are dead now. Ten at Keredolu, another 10 at Jolasco close to Lambe and another 5 at Alagbole,” she said.
This reinforces the theory of ritual killing.
But there are other versions of the story, especially on social media.
Some said they ate noodles. Other said it was pepper soup, and 50 people are dead now.
Share this on WhatsApp