Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Royal Academy of Engineering United Kingdom (UK) shortlisted 10 inventors for Africa Prize for Engineering Innovation (APEI) awards for 2021, among whom are six Nigerians.
The six Nigerians selected for the UK Africa Prize for Engineering Innovation are highlighted below with their inventions.
Elohor Thomas: created CodeLn, an automated tech recruitment platform that helps companies looking to hire people in the software engineering field. It is also an accessible learning tool, allowing novices and professional programmers alike to improve their coding skills, with special functions for those with additional needs, such as visually impaired and neurodiverse coders
 
Faith Adesemowo: developed Social Lender, a digital service that provides immediate access to formal financial services to those with little or no previous access.
 
Jacob Azundah: developed Aevhas, a high-efficiency garri processing machine, used to process the tuberous roots of the cassava plant into garri – a powdery flour and diet staple across West Africa.
 
Olugbenga Olufemi Olubanjo: created Reeddi, an energy system used to provide clean, reliable and affordable electricity to households and businesses operating in the energy-poor communities of sub-Saharan Africa.
 
Taofeek Olalekan: developed RealDrip, a medical device that simplifies essential intravenous therapy, used especially for pregnant women during drip and blood transfusions.
 
Yusuf Bilesanmi: developed ShiVent, a low-cost, non-electric and non-invasive ventilator for patients with respiratory difficulties, available at a fraction of the cost of mechanical ventilators. Its simple design enables it to be operated by unspecialised healthcare workers.
 
It was disclosed a Nigerian innovator, Godwin Benson, won the Prize in 2017. He developed Tuteria, an online platform that connects people seeking to learn ‘anything’ with verified local experts who can teach them what they want to learn, as well as ensuring safety, accountability and quality learning delivery.
Share this on WhatsApp