Share this on WhatsApp
 


Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State at the Centenary Birthday Thanksgiving of Msgr. Thomas Oleghe and the 18th Canonical Erection Anniversary of the Diocese of Auchi at Immaculate Conception Cathedral, Auchi, Edo State, held a brief meeting with former Governor Adams Oshiomhole, which according to a source lasted not more than 10 seconds.
The meeting of the two political leaders in Edo State was not quite a coincidence as invitees to the event were aware of high-level invitations by the Diocese.
A source that witnessed the meeting disclosed the two political leaders only greeted through elbow-bump in compliance with the coronavirus protocols. That was said to have lasted between 5 to 15 seconds, while there were no formal discussions.
Governor Obaseki was gathered to have said that he has nothing personal against Oshiomhole, noting that every action taken in the state is in the interest of the people.
Governor Obaseki had the darkest period with Oshiomhole, former national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), during the 2020 governorship election in Edo State. Despite all the blackmail and false information from the Oshiomhole camp and the APC, Obaseki won the governorship election. indeed, Oshiomhole suffered more injury in the fight with Obaseki. While he used the APC structures to push Obaseki out of the ruling APC, the party turned against Oshiomhole, dethroning him from being the national chairman before the end of his first tenure.
Meanwhile, Governor Obaseki has ordered an investigation into the Stormwater project in Edo State during the Oshiomhole administration. There was an earlier investigation of another project in which former Governor Oshiomhole was indicted, but action was not taken.
There were, however, insinuations that Obaseki’s brief meeting with Oshiomhole at Auchi was a sign of negotiation for the Edo governor’s return to the ruling APC. The governor’s supporters have refuted the insinuations, arguing that an informal meeting of less than 15 seconds was not sufficient to negotiate any defection.
 
Share this on WhatsApp