Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has begun to rebuild for the 2023 general elections. The party, first, considers a new framework of deepening internal democracy, ensuring equity and justice toward party coherence and stability. The party commenced rebuilding activities as the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has extended membership revalidation/registration across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja.
The PDP appears keen on reevaluating the guiding political value system and the need for consensus building towards promoting party cohesion and stability.
At a meeting of PDP Governors’ Forum at the Sokoto State Governor’s Lodge, Abuja, the party constituted three committees to coordinate reforms in certain areas of the party’s activities or projections.
The PDP at the meeting at the Conference Hall, Sokoto State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, FCT, which was also attended by the National Working Committee (NWC), on receiving an interim report of the Party’s Reconciliation Committee headed by former President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, commended the Reconciliation Committee on a job well done.
Resolving to strengthen the party to play appropriate role as the bulwark for the betterment of the lives of Nigerians, participants at the meeting deliberated on how to make PDP more efficient and effective, as well as to guarantee fraud-free and transparent primaries, to encourage consensus building among party members in the nomination of candidates, congresses and conventions.
The PDP endorsed electronic registration and update of the membership register of PDP nationwide, then, appointed three Committees.
The structure and membership of the Committees include:
Finance Committee: – Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, Chairman, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, member, Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, member, Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State, member, Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, member, and Gov. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State, member.
The Legislative Liaison Committee includes Governor Bala Mohammed  of Bauchi State, chairman, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, member, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi  of Enigi State, member, Gov. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel, member, Governor Duoye Diri of Bayelsa State, member, and Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, member.
The Legal Affairs Committee comprises Gov. Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, chairman, Gov. Darius Ishaku of Taraba State, member, Gov. Seyi Makinde, member, Gov. Samuel Ioraer Ortom of Benue State, member, and Governor Bello Mattawale Maradun of Zamfara State, member.
Each committee was given a particular mandate to deliver in the reform processes leading to the 2023 general elections. The PDP aspires to regain the presidency in the next elections and bounce back to power at the centre.
There was the insinuation that the PDP may throw its presidential ticket open, perhaps, suspending zoning and power rotation at the moment. This was, however, not discussed at the Abuja meeting last week. The party stakeholders were preoccupied with strengthening the PDP for stronger bond of unity and cohesion.
Share this on WhatsApp