Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Citizens Awareness Against Corruption and Social Vices Initiative (CAACASVI) has urged the new Director-General, Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET), Prof. Bako Matazu, to sustain the momentum of development in the agency.
Mr Olumuyiwa Onlede, CAACASVI Executive Director, gave the advice at a news conference on Thursday in Abuja.
Onlede noted that the tenure of the immediate past Director-General of the agency, Prof. Sani Mashi, witnessed tremendous improvement in infrastructure and environment conducive for NiMET employees.
According to him, NiMET in the last three and half years under Mashi, experienced massive infrastructural growth for service delivery across the country.
He said some of the achievements recorded by Mashi were provision of meteorological instruments nationwide and improved wireless communication system within and between observation stations and forecast offices.
Others, he said were installation of renewable energy solutions to ensure effective power back up in all station and replacement of analogue with digital anemometers in airports and other stations nationwide.
Onlede urged the new director-general not only to sustain this but improve on them.
The CAACASVI executive director, however, noted that contrary to media reports, Mashi was not removed from office due to fraud allegations or sharp practices.
He recalled that investigation launched into his activities as the chief accounting officer of NiMET following petitions against him.
“After investigation, the allegations were found to be lacking in merit even in our capacity as civil society organisation.
“We also independently engaged the agency and conducted investigation in a bid to ascertain the true state of things in relation to the petitions and media reports.
“All the allegations were discovered to be totally untrue,’’ Onlede said, adding that there was a need to set the records straight for posterity.
He stressed that having been investigated by the Independent and Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and EFCC, Mashi was given a clean bill of health as far as all allegation of corruption was concerned.
He added that the clarification was necessary in order not to weigh down the morale of public office holders who in their capacity decided to do what is right and good.
He also said that the clarification was necessary in order not to discourage diligent public servants.
 
Share this on WhatsApp