Share this on WhatsApp
 


The President, Small Animal Veterinary Association of Nigeria (SAVAN), Dr Kunle Abiade, says the Association has put in place measures to clampdown on quacks in veterinary practice.
Abiade disclosed this at a seminar organised by Ikorodu Dog Breeders and Lovers Association (IDBLA) tagged ‘Canine Illiteracy’ at Ikorodu club Hall, in Lagos.
According to him, Ikorodu has the highest number of quack veterinary doctors and warned people who go about parading themselves as doctors to desist from the act, adding that anybody caught would be made to face the full wrath of the law.
The president, who is also the Managing Director, pet care diagnostic centre, said that the association had put in place laws that empower members to control and prosecute anybody found operating , without having the required license to practice.
“Quackery is when somebody is operating under falsehood, and for such people not to indulge in such acts, a law has been put in place to control and prosecute those quacks.
“Breeders should also control themselves, by ensuring thorough verification of veterinary doctors before inviting them, so as to avoid quacks to the detriment of the profession,’’ Abiade said.
He urged breeders to also maintain integrity and see dog breeding as a business to eke out a livelihood and not just for fancy, saying that in making it a livelihood, the sky is their starting point.
Abiade advised the association to continue to organise similar seminars, to educate their members on new and different techniques to manage their pets, as well as the need to patronise only professional veterinary doctors.
Also speaking at the seminar, Dr Olufemi Arosso, President of the Nigeria Veterinary Medical Association, Lagos State chapter, described quackery in veterinary medicine as worrisome,  as most of the pets were often misdiagnosed.
Arroso said that quackery had made some dog owners to lose their pets, especially puppies, due to the wrong administration of drugs by impersonators, who disguised themselves as professional veterinary doctors.
“Canine Illiteracy is a good way in educating members on international best practice of canine management of pets, especially dogs. To have the best education, a breeder must understand the concept of being a veterinary doctor,” he said.
Represented by Dr. Sunday Adigun, immediate past Public Relations Officer of the association, Arosso advised  breeders to be careful and engage only professionals, to avoid wrong administration of drugs on their pets.
In his remarks, the president of IDBLA, Mr Gbenga Showemimo, commended veterans in the veterinary business for their efforts in clamping down on quackery in the profession.
Showemimo noted that the essence of the seminar was to educate members on the requirements of being a breeder, to identify different methods in pet management, ascertain the qualifications of a veterinary doctor and to fully understand what quackery was all about.
He added that the association had also put in place measures to curtail patronage of quacks by members, while publishing a directory of licensed and registered veterinary doctors at the ongoing seminar.
“We have always believed in educating ourselves on what it really takes to become a breeder.
“By bringing everybody on board to understand that there is a  difference between someone who jumps into the profession and someone who has passion for it.
“I am very sure that after today’s programme, nobody will want to patronise a quack veterinary doctor again.
“From our side, we will officially announce names of registered veterinary doctors as a way to clampdown on quacks in our area, he said.
The president commended the Lagos State Government on its free anti-rabies vaccination for dogs in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp