Share this on WhatsApp





 


No fewer than 36 students of the Sokoto State University, would be conferred with first class degrees at the forthcoming 35th, 36th and 37th combined convocation of the University, according to Prof. Sani Dangoggo, the Vice Chancellor.
Addressing a press conference on the institution’s maiden combined 1st, 2nd and 3rd convocation, on Tuesday, in Sokoto, Dangoggo said that a total of 1,473 had graduated in the sessions, and that the convocation, scheduled for Saturday, March 13, would be the first to be held since the university was established in July 2009.
He announced that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo would deliver the convocation lecture on Friday, March 12, while Honorary Doctorate Degrees will be conferred on some individuals, as well as investiture of the institution’s Chancellor, Emir of Dutse, Alhaji Nuhu Sanusi.
” The convocation would be for graduates 2016/2017, 2017/2018 and 2019/2020 sessions from the three available faculties in the university comprising Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, Faculty of Education and Faculty of Science.
” A total of 1,473 have graduated in the sessions with 36 having First Class Degrees, 529 Second Class Upper, 894 Second Class Lower and 14 persons with Third Class Degrees,” Dangoggo said.
The Vice Chancellor noted that the 23 courses in the institution had been fully accredited and abide  by the National University Commission’s (NUC) bench mark academic standards, guidelines and other standard procedural systems.
He explained that management had strived to enhance students’ accommodation, noting that at a time 12 students shared a four room accommodation.
Dangoggo said the institution was making efforts to tackle students’ accommodation, through a Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) scheme, besides the state government commitments to construct more hostels in the campus.
He added that the institution would be introducing a medical and allied health sciences course, as it begins the construction of a new teaching hospital at the university.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that structural works on the convocation ground alongside other immediate physical arrangement are ongoing, ahead of the convocation.






Share this on WhatsApp