Share this on WhatsApp
 


Governments of the 36 states of Nigeria now have the responsibility to secure their forest reserves.
He said this in Abuja at the first quarter 2021 meeting of Secretaries to State Governments of the 36 states and the Federal Capita Territory.
The event was themed ‘The Role of Secretaries to the State Governments in Strengthening Sub-National Level Security Architecture.’
He urged the 36 states and the FCT to evolve political structures that would tackle insecurity and other challenges facing the country.
Mustapha’s advice has thus vindicated Ondo Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu, and might further engender drastic measures against criminals, mostly Fulani herders and bandits, kidnapping and hiding in the forests.
Akeedolu first pushed for it last month when he gave Fulani herders in Ondo forest reserves an ultimatum to leave the bush.
His effort was initially resisted by President Muhammadu Buhari’s aide and some northern governors, and the resulting controversies lasted for days.
Mustapha said there is the need for the states to revisit the 1976 Dasuki Local Government Reform.
“The Dasuki Reform is still the best for the LGAs and remain a good solution to the barrage of challenges we’re all facing in our states” he said.
“We’d all agree that in the recent past, Nigeria has been confronted with an inexplicable escalation of violence resulting in insecurity across the Nation.
“It not only serves as a drain to our national resources, but creates a climate of uncertainty and challenges the ability of the Nation to provide a convivial atmosphere for its citizens to go about their everyday normal businesses.”
The National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, who was also present noted the important roles community leaders can play in the matter.
”Right now, security agencies appear unable to work with each other; everybody wants to be the one to deliver, and it can never work. We’ve been trying to work to see that there is unity of purpose, unity of operation,” he added.
There are no fewer than 1000 forests in Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp