Share this on WhatsApp
 


The former National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, says Nigeria has never been this bad under the current leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari.
 Abdullahi, who had since gone back to the Peoples Democratic Party noted that speaking for the ruling party as the National Publicity Secretary when he was still with the ruling party was the most tedious and challenging task of his life.
“I was the spokesperson of the party and I must tell you that it was a very difficult assignment for me because people were asking me lots of questions that I was not able to answer. It was worse when people opened pages of our manifesto to remind me what the party promised. Then I will no longer be as eloquent as I used to be.
Speaking in Abuja on Sunday, he said it would be easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for the APC to retain the presidential seat in 2023 based on its failure to manage insecurity and the economy.
“If people have to judge the ruling party based on the manifesto and promises made in 2015, it is going to be very difficult for them to come back in 2023. And one thing that will make it difficult, in addition to perhaps other things, is the issue of insecurity. It used to be confined to a part of the country in the past, but it has now escalated to become a national problem.
“For us in PDP, we recognise that a lot of work needs to be done within the party itself to position ourselves for the challenges ahead. Comparatively, I don’t think it is going to be easier for even the ruling party, the APC. This is because the general feeling, if you interact with the people or unless if you want to be economical with the reality, is that there is a general level of disenchantment.”
“So, without passing judgment on whether APC has failed or impressed, what I can say is that among 10 people, seven or eight will likely say that APC failed in their expectations,” he added.

Share this on WhatsApp