Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Nigeria Police has vindicated billionaire businessman, Captain Idahosa Okunbo against the corruption and shares manipulation allegations leveled against him by former Chairman of the defunct Skye Bank, Tunde Ayeni.
Recall that Ayeni had petitioned the Police and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission through his lawyer, Femi Falana, SAN, alleging that he sold his shares at  Ocean Marine Solutions Limited under duress while also accusing Okunbo of stealing and criminally diverting company funds.
However, the police in a report from the office of the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, said all the documents submitted by the suspect (Captain Idahosa Wells-Okunbo) were perused, scrutinised and forensically investigated and were found to be genuine and were all endorsed by the parties (Dr. Tunde Ayeni and Captain Idahosa Wells-Okunbo) to the transactions.
In their findings, the Police said they established that both men had been friends since 2003, which led to a lot of business relationships, one of which was Ocean Marine Security Limited, which later rebranded as Ocean Marine Solutions Limited.
Tracing the ownership structure of the company, the report noted, “That Ocean Marine Solutions Limited, then, has the following shareholders, Captain Idahosa Wells-Okunbo – 46%; Dr. Tunde Ayeni – 35%; Garth Dooley – 14%; Admiral Augustus Aikhomu originally has 5%, which was subsequently re-acquired by Captain Idahosa Wells-Okunbo and Dr Tunde Ayeni, who also became chairman and vice-chairman respectively.
“That the complainant, Dr. Tunde Ayeni, voluntarily and legally transferred his shares and that of his wife from Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMS) and its subsidiaries to Captain Idahosa Wells-Okunbo in consideration of the total sum of N2billion, which the complainant (Dr Tunde Ayeni) acknowledged receipt of same and resigned his membership from the board of Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMS) and its subsidiaries.”
The report, therefore, concluded thus: “That the allegations of stealing and criminal diversion of company funds as alleged by the complainant, Dr. Tunde Ayeni against the suspect, Captain Idahosa Wells-Okunbo could not be established as there was documentary evidence provided by the suspect – Captain Idahosa Wells-Okunbo, which clearly shows that Captain Idahosa Okunbo, has lawfully acquired Dr. Tunde Ayeni’s interest in Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMS) for a valuable consideration of N2, 000, 000, 000.
The report has since been forwarded to the EFCC and the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, thus, foreclosing Ayeni’s allegations against Okunbo and his attempt to return to the company through other means possible.
That notwithstanding, Okunbo too has written, both to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami and the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa, intimating them of the development and the need to authenticate the report by acting on it.
Share this on WhatsApp