Share this on WhatsApp

 


A Consultant Ocular Oncologist, Dr Abia Nzelu, has advised Nigerian women to make their cancer status, and other health conditions a priority.
Nzelu, also the Executive Secretary, Mass Medical Mission (MMM), gave the advice on Monday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in commemoration of the International Women’s Day (IWD) in Lagos.
She also urged women to eat healthy foods and go for regular medical checkups and screenings to better fight against cancer scourge.
Nzelu said regular screening and early detection were key to survival of cancer, urging people to refrain from living in self denial.
The consultant said that some people with cancer lived in self denial only to present the case and seek medical intervention late when the situation had become complicated.
According to her, excessive intake of alcohol, cigarette, self medication and drug addiction should be avoided by women.
“The best way to avert the consistent and continued pattern of cancer, claiming lives is early detection through checkup such as the mammogram, sonogram and pap smear.
“Early detection increases the chances of survival and preserves many more lives,’’ she said.
Nzelu, however, called for increased efforts by all stakeholders to ensure gender equality and women inclusion in governance.
She stressed the need for participation of women and youths in governance, saying that they have the right to be heard and to contribute to nation building.
According to her, this is a necessary step to achieving gender equality through democratic governance as women and youths represent more than half of the population.
“The rate of neglect, discrimination, brutality and marginalisation of women in this part of the world is too high and calls for attention.
“Equality was not just a fundamental right, but the solution to the many challenges facing the world today like climate change, poverty and post-crisis recovery.
“Opening governance to the women and young generation is the best thing that can be done to maximise the advantages and dividends of democracy.
“Stakeholders must task themselves more collectively to make a deliberate effort in addressing the gaps that exist in governance frameworks and ensure greater inclusiveness,’’ she said.
The oncologist called for more efforts to improve women representation in governance, saying that they make up 50 per cent of the population and were fundamental to achieving good governance at all levels.
 
Share this on WhatsApp