Share this on WhatsApp
 


No fewer than 100 exhibitors are expected to participate in the 32nd Enugu International Trade Fair holding from March 19 to March 29.
The President of Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA), Mr Emeka Nwandu, made the disclosure on Tuesday during the trade fair launch and press briefing in Enugu.
Nwandu said that the chamber had been receiving streams of interests from corporate organisations and institutions that wished to participate in the fair.
The president said that the prospective participants cut across local and international entrepreneurs.
He said that the fair would provide the cleavages to gauge the economic outlook of the country and would provide the required platform for entrepreneurs to make informed business decisions.
He said that the chamber had within the third quarter of 2020 commenced arrangements for a successful hosting of the fair, adding that it would be held to the satisfaction of all stakeholders.
Nwandu said that it was necessary to hold the trade fair in spite of the prevailing situation in the country as only a thriving economy and free enterprise would deepen democracy in Nigeria.
“Even though we are still battling with the second wave of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, we still need to be positive about our economic affairs.
“A number of strategies have been put in place by the chamber towards ensuring strict observance of all the COVID-19 safety protocols.
“We have strategically planned that all stakeholders realise meaningful outcome from participating in this fair, including a number of side attractions that would interest members of the public,” he said.
The president said that the fair would get more credence and attention toward boosting the agricultural sector, particularly, commercial farming for job creation and food security.
Nwandu, however, appealed to the Federal Government to make good its promise of developing the trade fair complex as it did to such complexes in other regions.
“We shall continue to provide conducive environment for the hosting of the trade fair by upgrading facilities in the complex within our limited resources.
“We pray that the Federal Government would rise to its responsibilities to fully develop the complex,” Nwandu said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event has its theme as ‘Promoting New Technologies, Business Ideas and Strategies for Rapid Economic Growth and Development in Nigeria’.
Share this on WhatsApp