Share this on WhatsApp
 


Stakeholders in Tunga community, Awe Local Government Area of Nasarawa State have commended Dangote Group for the huge agricultural investment in the area.
The stakeholders gave the commendation in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Awe.
According to them, the siting of a Sugar refinery and sugarcane plantation is already transforming  the community and generating  employment for the people thereby reducing crime.
Mr Umar Ameygye, Chairman, Tunga Development Association told NAN that the establishment of Dangote Sugar refinery and sugarcane plantation in the area has brought a lot of benefits to them.
He explained that the company had renovated and provided facilities in so many primary and secondary schools as well as primary healthcare centres.
Ameygye said the company also provided boreholes and overhead water tanks in various locations across the commuity.
He, however, appealed to those descreditting the contributions of the company through various media publications to desist in the interest of development.
He added that the company,  through the state government had paid compensation to all persons whose lands were acquired before work commenced.
On his part, Dauda Musa-Dauda, Chairman, Tunga Youth Association said the company was God-sent to them.
He said the company had employed a lot of youths from the area thereby addressing the issue of unemployment and insecurity.
Musa-Dauda also said the Dangote group awarded scholarship to their indigenes in primary, secondary and tertiary institutions.
He, therefore, advised people in the area to be patriotic and desist from acts capable of breaching the peace of in the community.
Reacting to the issue of payment of compensation, the youth leader said the group was part of the process and every community affected was compensated.
However, Umar Abubakar, Chairman of Awe LGA said he had received complaints of lack of payment of compensation from Orbo community.
Abubakar said that a committee had been set up to look into the issue with a view to resolving it amicably.
The chairman assured that they would ensure justice was done to everybody in the area.
 
Share this on WhatsApp