Share this on WhatsApp





 


The Kaduna State Social Protection Accountability Coalition (KADSPAC) on Thursday, presented the state Social Protection Policy to community groups and other relevant stakeholders in the state.
The dissemination event, held in Kaduna, was organised in collaboration with Kaduna State Steering Committee on Social Investment to facilitate understanding of the policy.
Mrs Saude Atoyebi, Focal Person, Social Investment Programme and Chairperson of the steering committee, said that the policy was inaugurated by Gov. Nasir El-Rufai in February.
She said that the policy represented the commitment to provide social assistance, insurance, and labour market interventions for the poor and vulnerable people in the state.
According to her, the intervention will be based on rights and not charity.
“The policy and the implementation plan highlighted the imperative of social inclusion and the prioritisation of poor and vulnerable residents at every stage in the delivery of social protection programmes in the state.
“For efficiency and ownership, the policy would be implemented using community-based structures and social outreaches, so that interventions are fully accessible by the targeted group wherever they are.
“This is why community members and groups are here today, so you can take the information back to your people.
“The aim is to provide a platform for a robust discussion on the policy and the benefits to all residents.”
She added that the meeting was also an opportunity for the people to understand government efforts and to stimulate community ownership towards the attainment of the policy’s goals and objectives.
“The policy is about the people and prioritises the needs of the people,” she added.
Ms Theresa Obiadi of KADSPAC, who presented the overview of the policy, described social protection as the totality of steps taken to address the vulnerability of the poorest residents by mitigating their social and economic shocks.
Obiadi added that the goal was to establish a gender-sensitive and age-appropriate framework to ensure a minimum social protection floor for all citizens.
She identified the policy objectives and measures as social assurance, social insurance, labour market intervention, as well as legislation, regulation and institutionalisation.
She added that the interventions were designed to provide cover for social and economic shocks for children zero to 18 years, youths, workers, injured, disabled, sick and unemployed and senior citizens.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that participants at the event promised to sensitise their respective groups and community members about the policy and its benefits.
Some of the participants include officials of the National Orientation Agency, Local Government Councils, traditional and religious leaders, market women, youth groups and people living with disabilities.









Share this on WhatsApp