Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Wema Bank Plc has reacted to a trendy story on social media which accused its Chief Human Resources Officer, Ololade Ogungbenro, of incessant verbal abuse of staff with the latest victim landing at a private hospital in Gbagada.
The latest was said to be another married lady who was allegedly verbally abused for over one hour on Wednesday 24th February by the HR.
“She was crying hysterically for that long while absorbing the abuse and that led to her collapse and eventual emergency evacuation by staff to a private hospital Gbagada where she was immediately placed on admission,” a source was quoted to have said.
“The psychologist at the hospital reviewed her when she temporarily regained her consciousness, expressed the huge impact of the emotional trauma on her and advised her to resign from that office as it is a threat to her life,” the source added.
However, reacting to the allegations in a statement on Thursday, Wema Bank’s Head, Brand & Marketing Communication, Funmilayo Falola, said; “Our attention has been drawn to an allegation of verbal abuse levelled against a staff of Wema Bank on social media, allegedly following some information from staff.”
“At Wema Bank, our staff are our most valued assets and we treasure them greatly. Equity, fairness, and mutual respect are the gold standards of our practice, operations, and relations with both internal and external stakeholders at Wema Bank. These are firmly rooted in our values spanning over 75 years of existence.”
“We respect and uphold the rights and dignity of all members of staff, irrespective of their age, gender, or position in our organisation. Their contributions to the growth of the business and the success of our customers across all our business touchpoints are of immense value.”
The bank assured all its stakeholders that the issue which was already being investigated at the highest level of the organisation would receive appropriate redress that will be comforting to the affected parties.
 
Share this on WhatsApp