Share this on WhatsApp





 


The African Youths Assembly for Peace (AYAP) on Tuesday, tasked the Federal Government on the provision of enabling environment for women to thrive.
Head, Research of Publicity of the group, Mr AbdulAziz Yusuf, gave the charge in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja.
NAN reports that the UN set aside every March 8 to celebrate International Women’s Day with the theme, “Choose to Challenge.”
Yusuf said that it was extremely pertinent for the government to provide women with start-up funds for small scale businesses through the provision of more robust credit facilities.
According to him, women bear the disproportionate burden of poverty in the country, hence the need to assist them.
“Government should establish vocational training centres, ensure access to quality healthcare service and provide access to soft loan facility from the government amongst other suggestions.
“Women who live in rural areas are often characterised by poverty, illiteracy, ignorance and lack of social amenities hence, do not have access to credits facilities,” he said.
He also urged relevant authorities to support women to achieve their socio-political and economic development, especially the provision of policies that guarantee gender equality.
“It is important to note that promoting gender-sensitive policies and programmes will address a lot of challenges affecting women.
“Political parties should ensure strict adherence to affirmative action by allocating slots for women in their party structures and manifestoes,” he said.
Yusuf said that the government must invest time and resources in programmes aimed at addressing the challenges faced by women especially to improve their health and physical wellbeing.
He, however, called on women not to relent in their efforts to achieve greatness in life.
“They should always look beyond their setbacks; have positive dreams and believe in their ability to discover their talent,” he said.






Share this on WhatsApp