Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Former Delta State Governor Chairman of TNGPIB Confab, Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan has advocated for 10 per cent as host community fund as against the 2.5 per cent stipulated in the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB).
Uduaghan who disclosed this at the ongoing TNGPIB Confab summit, said it was not just about the percentages given to the states, it is about the percentage that gets to the communities themselves.
“That is why we suggested a trust fund. That is the formula we proposed. I want to emphasize the 10 per cent derivations for host communities, 2.5 per cent is too small.
However, Uduaghan admitted there are challenges and issues surrounding which are hindering the gas gathering process.
He urged the Nigerian government to take gas seriously, stressing that there is so much gas in the nation that can provoke an economic turnaround if well addressed in the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB).
According to Uduaghan, the future of Nigeria is gas, and there is so much gas but all the issues surrounding gas should be dealt with by the PIB, especially as regards gas flaring.
“These challenge is cost by costing challenges; how do we get the best of gas utilisation, we must allow exploration of gas directly; the gas plant in Ogidigben, Delta State that President Goodluck Jonathan pushed in his last stay in office has today been abandoned, others can be established across the Niger/Delta.
“As leaders of the N/Delta region we must get involved and encourage our lawmakers to pass the PIB bill, if it is done it will do more than economical good, it will also reduce crime in Nigeria as so many youths will be empowered.
Also, speaking at the summit, former NDDC MD, Ibim Semenitari who also supported the call for 10 per cent derivation funds for host communities, however, asked that the PIB bill for easy understanding amongst all stakeholder public.
Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Anyim Pius Anyim at one of the sessions, tasked lawmakers not to just pass the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) but ensure that the bill on a holistic approach caters for the general interest of Nigeria and Nigerians.
On derivation, the former Senate President said Nigeria needs to look at the role of a state in managing derivation as well as the role of NDDC in managing derivations for the communities.
Share this on WhatsApp