Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Creative Industry Group (CIG) on Tuesday condemned the mockery of Davido and congratulated Nigerian musicians who won the Grammy awards.
The CIG President, Mr Felix Duke  who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in a telephone interview in Lagos said every creatives should be appreciated and encouraged for making efforts in their profession.
He added that winning Grammy by a Nigerian musician has beamed the light on the Nigeria entertainment industry and urged the government to channel more support to the industry.
“The CIG group congratulates Burna Boy, Wizkid and every other Nigerian musicians for their nominations and also bringing home the Grammy awards.
“We say thank you to them for making Nigeria proud and putting Nigeria on the map. We have been there but they solidified it.
“We know that this is the beginning of a new thing in the entertainment industry and this ll affect all sectors of the creative industry because the light has been beamed on Nigeria right now.
Duke who did not give details of the alleged mockers said,  “Those attacking Davido over Grammy awards should stop it; Davido has also made Nigerians proud. He has brought worldwide recognition to the Nigeria music industry.
“He might not have won Grammy but a lot of people love his music worldwide. We can not kill him because he did not win the Grammy awards.
“Rather, Davido should be encouraged. We don’t know what tomorrow holds. In as much as he is putting in his best, he can also bring more awards and recognitions.” he said.
Duke further urged the government to support the entertainment industry adding that the industry is capable of taking Nigeria out of poverty.
“Nigerian musicians are making Nigeria proud, yes we have had several nominations for Grammy in the past. To be nominated is something but for the award to come is a great thing.
“With this, our leaders should take the entertainment/creative industry serious. They should stop paying lip service as we hardly see the resources they promise to allocate to the industry.
“If California, a country in United States of America can be richer than some countries through entertainment, why is Nigeria sleeping?
“Creative industry is bigger that oil. Oil ll soon dry up. This is the time to invest in this industry.
“With little or no support, Nigerians in music, film, fashion and other creatives are bringing recognition to Nigeria.
“Why don’t we invest in this industry which a lot of youths are looking up to?” he asked
NAN recalls that Burna Boy, whose real name is Damini Ogulu, won the Best Global Music Album category with his Twice as Tall album.
The feature in Beyonce’s video for Brown Skin Girl also got Wizkid his first Grammy.
Share this on WhatsApp