Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A political leader in Zamfara State on Monday raised alarm that some politicians in the north have ulterior motive to sabotage government’s efforts to end banditry across the country. Abdullah Shinkafi, a member of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), at a press conference on Monday Shinkafi stated that they suspected there is a conspiracy in the Jangebe kidnapping incident, saying that some politicians from the opposition had been making calls and moves to frustrate the rescue operation. He disclosed that some politicians in Zamfara State offered about N57 million to bandits, inducing them not to release the female students kidnapped from Government Science Secondary School, Jangebe, Zamfara State.
Shinkafi explained that the politicians gave the money to the bandits in Zamfara State to sabotage the peace accord and disarmament being initiated by Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State. He said the politicians plot to frustrate Governor Matawalle’s security measures so as to make Zamfara State unfavorable in order to create opportunity for them succeed the governor by all means in 2023.
Shinkafi said that politicians from both the ruling and opposition parties should submit their telephone sets to security operatives for screening. The APGA chieftain insisted that he is confident many statesmen will be implicated in the kidnapping of the school girls in Jangabe if their telephone sets are scrutinised.
Shinkafi cautioned politicians who desperate to remove Matawalle from office to wait for their time, cautioning that they should ensure they do it by the book, than encouraging violent crimes in the state. The party leader appealed to the youths not to allow themselves to be used as stooges by desperate politicians to burn down the nation.
Shinkafi advocated for rational government intervention policies that will facilitate the empowerment of the youths, including creating employment opportunities for the army of unemployed youths in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp