Share this on WhatsApp
 


Key powerful members of President Muhammadu Buhari kitchen cabinet, Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno, Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Ibrahim Gambari, Secretary to the Federal Government (SGF), Boss Mustapha and a few key officials at the Presidency are at loggerheads over who succeeds IGP Mohammed Adamu when he finally retires.
The present IGP Mohammed Adamu was to statutorily retire last month (February 2 to be specific). However, the Presidency extended his tenure by three months. If his tenure terminates after the three months in May 2021, another IGP will or may be announced to replace him.
Investigation shows that those in the ring for the position are Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) Moses Jutoboh from Bayelsa State; Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Dasuki Galanchi from Kano State and Commissioner of Police (CP) in charge of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Bala Ciroma from Yobe State.
Ciroma who is due for promotion to the rank of AIG soon, according to reliable sources is the choice of the Attorney General, Malami. The A-G is said to be strongly pushing for him to clinch the IGP job.
But other interested persons in Aso Rock are said to be kicking against Ciroma’s choice. They are said to be alleging that the A-G is wielding too much power and influence on national issues, especially on security matters.
He is said to have influenced the choice of the new EFCC chairman.
It was gathered that the NSA, Chief of Staff, and some officials in the Presidency are preferring Jutiboh and Dasuki.
A respected monarch from Kano and some top politicians from the area are said to have been strongly making a case for Galanchi.
But other Aso Rock chiefs are said to be uncomfortable with his choice because the Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Gambo is also from Kano State.
“It will cause controversy if the CNS and the next IGP are from the state. It may create disloyalty to the new IG by some officers from other regions,” a source opined.
By March 4 this year, AIG Galandanchi and Chiroma were officially, legally, and technically not qualified as enshrined in Section 7 (6) of the Police Act 2020 which stipulates that any officer to be appointed IGP must have not less than four years more in service.
If the Presidency will not bend the Act or apply regional sentiments the only qualified officer who has more than four years in service is DIG Moses Jitoboh.
He was promoted to DIG on February 23, this year. Dasuki was promoted to AIG in December 2020. Dasuki and Jutiboh have attended the National Institute of Strategic Studies (NIPSS) which is one of the prerequisites for an appointment for the IGP position. Dasuki passed out from NIPSS last November.
If Dasuki is appointed, about 18 AIGs and six DIGs would be compulsorily retired. He is number 19 in seniority in the AIG cadre.
If CP Ciroma is appointed IGP after the Police Commission hurriedly promotes him to AIG rank next month, about 28 AIG’s would be forced to retire as they are currently his seniors.

Share this on WhatsApp