Share this on WhatsApp




Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, on Tuesday, reiterated advocacy for upward review of 13 per cent derivation formula in revenue allocation in Nigeria, adding that the 13 per cent derivation had remained inadequate for the development of the South-South.

 


Obaseki at the inauguration of the Effurun-Otor-Ovwor-Olomu bridge and the rehabilitated 34-km Otu-Jeremi-Okwagbe Road in Ughelli South Local Government Area, Delta State, executed by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, argued that the peculiarity of the environment in the South-South had made it quite expensive to develop infrastructure, especially, roads, in the area.
Governor Obaseki noted that the quality of projects constructed by the Okowa administration in Delta State shows it is obvious that he can do more with more funds.
Obaseki stated that the bridge and road projects constructed by Okowa would connect the people to other parts of the state and enhance the economy of the communities.
Obaseki remarked that Governor Okowa had moved up from “road master” to “bridge master”, describing the Delta Governor as a “brilliant leader who understands the importance of roads and other infrastructure in the economic development of communities”.
“Okowa is a champion of modern-day democracy and represents the ideals of great leadership, particularly, with the quality of work he does with the derivation funds.
“Okowa is not only building physical bridges but also building social, economic and community bridges,” Obaseki stated.
“Governor Okowa is a brilliant leader who understands the importance of roads and infrastructure in the lives of the people and communities, and that is why he has continued to prioritise the construction of roads in Delta.
“The construction of this bridge and roads will lead to the development of the communities and I must commend the governor for connecting the Urhobos and Ijaws with the Okwagbe road,” the Governor maintained.
The Edo governor assured of sustenance of the age-long relationship between Delta and Edo. He said that he would invite Okowa to inaugurate projects in Edo State in no distant time.
In his remarks, Okowa said that the Effurun-Otor-Ovwor bridge was one of the major requests of the people when he visited the communities in 2015.
He said that the vision of his administration was to connect Delta communities with roads, bridges and other basic amenities, adding that his administration had awarded contracts for no fewer than 500 road projects, with many already completed.
The governor commended the contractor of the projects, Obakpor Engineering Limited, for its engineering prowess and assured that he would deliver on the Ovwor hospital project in 2022.
“When I came to inspect the bridge while under construction, it was a very exciting moment even more exciting than what I saw today because I saw a traditional ruler walk on a wooden bridge to come and meet me on the other side of the bridge.
“Today, I believe that my joy knows no bounds because we have truly brought joy to the people of Ovwor-Olomu/Effurun-Otor.
“As the Commissioner for Works did say, we are currently continuing on the Trans-Warri road with several bridges and it is our hope that we will complete that project leading to Ode-Itsekiri in the course of our tenure.
“The Ayakoromo bridge is still undergoing construction, the Orere bridge in Ewu kingdom has just started.
“We made a promise last year and the project was awarded this January and it will cost the state government over N9 billion.
“The Benekuku/Kwale bridge has gone very far and it is about 75 per cent completed. We are hoping that by the end of the year, we should be able to commission that bridge.
“That bridge leads across to all the Agip facilities in Ndokwa East Local Government Area where we also have the gas plant and the power plant.
“We have also started the Isheagu/Ewulu bridge that links Isheagu town with Ewulu in Aniocha South Local Government and we will continue to do the best we can for our people,” Okowa highlighted.





Share this on WhatsApp