Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has welcomed the proposal of Nile University of Nigeria, Abuja,  seeking its collaboration in the areas of software engineering, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Programming.
The commission made this known during a courtesy visit by Nile University to the commission on Thursday in Abuja.
The Executive Vice-Chairman, Prof. Umar Danbatta, speaking through, Usman Malah, Director Human Capital and Administration NCC, said the proposal for collaboration between the two institutions was a welcome idea.
“One of the cardinal pillars underpinning the Commission’s Strategic Management Plan is strategic partnership with relevant stakeholders, through mutually sustainable collaborations.
“At the Commission, we are always open to ideas and innovations, which is the hallmark of the academic community which the University represents.
“Coming from the academia, I am ever happy to bridge the knowledge gap between theories and practice.
“As a life-long diligent member of the academic community, I look forward to every opportunity for bridging the knowledge gap between the academia and the practice community,” he said.
He said that the commission would continue to build the necessary relationships and also establish the measures to enhance the performance of critical stakeholders within different sectors of the economy.
According to him, in the wake of the lockdown and other restrictions occasioned by COVID-19, NCC has  witnessed the potential positive impact of telecommunications and ICTs in the economy.
He said “With the education sector becoming a major participant in the phenomenal use of ICTs to drive performance.
“We are also witnessing how the need for further self-development in a COVID-19 era, has prompted our staff to seek further capacity enhancement programs with educational institutions, such as the Nile University of Nigeria.”
He assured of NCCs determination to partner all stakeholders for the good of the country.
“The commission will continue to remain fully committed to ensuring synergy, through its strategic collaborations with relevant stakeholders, such as the Nile University of Nigeria.
“This is in order to ensure that the overall socio-economic development objectives of the Federal Government of Nigeria are met,” he said.
Mr Kelechi Nwakwo, Head Academia Research Support, Research and Development Department, NCC, disclosed that the commission would by next week announce the university lecturer who will spend one year in the department as a research fellow.
“We invite university lecturers to come and spend one year as research fellows in the research and development department of the commission.
“This has been approved by the management and a request was sent to all universities in Nigeria and a winner has emerged and will be announced next week,” he said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp