Share this on WhatsApp





 


The People Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday scolded the All Progressives Congress (APC) for developing fixation of hatred for Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State. The PDP State Publicity Secretary, Edo State, Chris Osa Nehikhare, in a statement in Benin City, blasted the APC: “even if Governor Obaseki turns water into wine, your prejudice will still manifest.”
Chris Osa Nehikhare in the statement pointed out: “in their latest press release, Edo APC has exhibited ignorance in the act of bridge building and collaboration, the very reason the party is in opposition today.”
The PDP State Publicity Secretary protested: “how can any serious political party talk down on partnerships with a sister state, especially, one that shares same DNA?
“In case they are not aware, Delta State was part of Midwest and then Bendel State from which Edo and Delta states were created.
“Furthermore, both states are part of the strategic zone called south-south and all its governors belong to the same political party.
“How can a rag-tag party like APC talk of infighting in PDP that is the most organized, most cohesive, people centered and credible party in Edo State. Our policies and programmes for the society are with a view to promote the collective good and not the personal aggrandizement policy that is the cardinal program of APC.”
The PDP berated the APC for conveniently forgotten or feigning ignorance that the party leaders do not know the reason Governor Obaseki left the party.
According to Osa Nehikhare, “Governor Godwin Obaseki’s insistence on using state resources to develop and build infrastructure for Edo people and not stomach infrastructure for APC leaders and cabal was the reason he left.”
Osa Nehikhare recalled that during the campaigns, Governor Obaseki promised to Reset Edo. “He talked about reforms in the civil service, reforms in governance and reforms in attitudes. Today, these reforms are ongoing and reports from the technical committee setup to review these will be submitted soon,” the SPS said.
Osa Nehikhare declared: “it is clear that APC is full of bitterness, resentment and cynicism. Their Jaundice cannot be cured and that’s why even if Governor Obaseki turns water into wine, APC prejudice will still manifest.
“How can a party that wishes to be taken seriously call a government that its civil and public servants continue to get their salaries as at when due, contractors continue to be mobilized monthly and their contracts commissioned and made available for use by Edo people, pension payments maintained and paid regularly while the state government COVID-19 management regime is the protocol of choice for many state governments be called a failure? Tragic, wouldn’t you agree.”
The State Publicity Secretary  highlighted: “it might interest you to know that this government has advertised up to 2000 vacancies in the state civil service alone without the sack of one single worker, while there have been hundreds of thousands of potpourris of jobs created as a result of the enabling environment created by government.”
Osa Nehikhare insisted that Governor Godwin Obaseki and PDP will continue to deliver on good governance!
“The Resetting Edo Agenda is causing serious discomfort for APC,” he noted.
Osa Nehikhare maintained that “Edo Must Move Forward!”





Share this on WhatsApp