Share this on WhatsApp
 
Mary Daniel, the Oshodi amputee who became a sensation weeks ago after pictures of her selling water at Oshodi emerged on social media  has been discovered to be a fraud, and may lose the N25m donation by Nigerians.
It was discovered that her presence in Oshodi was staged among many other fraudulent claims intended to deceive Nigerians.
She had claimed that she lost her parents in a fatal accident, and that her leg was amputated after the accident. She also claimed she has a baby and an aged grandmother to fend for.
Following her harrowing tales, Nigerians started donating money through her bank account made public with about N25m raised.
All was going well for the young lady until the Lagos state government discovered that her father was alive. It was also detected she was amputated from birth.
Daniel, it was gathered, was receiving strange calls from those who staged her story with threats to reveal the truth unless she gave them their share of the money.
This prompted Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to immediately hand her over to officials of the social welfare for investigation following revelations that her case was staged.
It was learnt Sanwo-Olu handed her over to officials of welfare in the presence of the police and some Kogi leaders, who attested her father was alive.
Lagos Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu who also confirmed the story explained that the young woman was in the custody of officials of the Social Welfare and not the police as earlier reported.
“It was discovered that contrary to her claim that her parents died during an accident that left her amputated, it was discovered that her father is very much alive and that she was amputated from birth.
“It was also discovered that her presence in Oshodi was staged. Those working with her played on the intelligence of Nigerians to get donations for her.
“I had to attach some policemen to her to prevent any attack on her when she went to the bank. We suspected those people might follow her but everything went well as they were not seen,” Odumosu explained.
 
Share this on WhatsApp