Share this on WhatsApp
 


Estranged girlfriend/fiancée of Davido, Chioma Avril Rowland, popularly known as Chef Chi or Chioma, has finally removed all the pictures of her baby’s daddy from her Instagram page.
Mama Ifeanyi decided to take a big step by ridding her Instagram wall of all of Davido’s pictures.
However, she graciously left one, which is the picture displaying the DMW boss with their son, Ifeanyi.
Rumours of a split between the pair have been around for months now, after Chioma reportedly stopped wearing her engagement ring. Neither parties spoke on the rumours, leaving fans unsure of their relationship status.
However, a video surfaced online of a man and woman holding hands, who fans are claiming is Davido and American rapper Mya Yafai. As it stands, it’s unconfirmed if it is them in the video for certain, though fans certainly think it looks like them.
The pair became friends in 2013, but began dating in 2015. Davido spoke about the start of their relationship in a 2020 interview, saying: ““I have known Chioma for about seven years. We have been dating for about five years. Lati introduced me to Chioma. We went to the same school, Babcock University. We started as friends but I got so used to her and she got so used to me as well. She is a great cook as well.”
However, the couple didn’t go public until 2017, when Chioma starred in Davido’s music video for Assurance.
After they introduced their families in September 2019, they soon became engaged in Lagos. The wedding was set to take place in July 2020 but was put on hold due to the coronavirus pandemic, which sparked rumours of a split.
However, in a Bounce Radio interview, Davido explained: “Honestly, Coronavirus messed plans up because it was meant to be in July. I have decided it will be some time next year. For now, I want her to work on her business while I work on my album and the kids. I want everything to balance first.”
In October of 2019, they welcomed their first son together: David Adedeji Ifeanyi Adeleke Jr.
As it stands, it is currently unconfirmed whether or not it is Mya Yafai in the video circulating Twitter.

Share this on WhatsApp