Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Warri South Local Government Area (LGA) of Delta has called for an effective and sustainable collaboration between the local government and the Nigerian Army.
The Chairman of the LGA, Dr Michael Tidi, made the call onTuesday when he led members of the council’s Executive on a courtesy visit to the 3 Battalion, Nigerian Army, Effurun, near Warri.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the team was received by the Commanding Officer, Maj. Ismail Hussain.
Tidi said that the visit was to appreciate the Nigerian army for its good work, and solicit more cooperation in the provision of security.
“We have decided to pay this visit to appreciate the support you have been rendering to us. You are one man who whenever we call, never shies away from your responsibilities.
“It appears that in our generation some of us are getting it right. Before now, people saw positions as titles.
“But I can say you see your position as a call to service. Since you came to Warri, you have been working tirelessly.
“I have had the opportunity to work side by side with you together with the Sector Commander of the FRSC. I have seen the professionalism both of you deploye in the course of discharging your duties.
“So, I said to myself that there will be no better way to start this second term than to come and say thank you for the support you gave to my people and my administration,” he said.
The chairman also appealed to the commanding officer to redouble his support to the council during his second tenure.
Tidi said that his administration was committed to changing the narratives in Warri metropolis through its beautification programmes.
“The streets of Warri are wearing new looks because we quickly set up a beatification committee to change the aesthetic nature of the town.
“We want Warri to be at par with other modern cities in the world. There is no better time than now to properly clean the metropolis,” Tidi added.
Responding, Hussain, thanked the chairman and his executive for the visit and pledged to continue to provide the necessary support to the council.
“I really appreciate your coming; we will continue to provide the support because it is part of our mandate.
“I assure you that anytime you seek our support we will surely oblige,”  Hussain said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp