Share this on WhatsApp
 



The 2020/21 Champions League campaign is gradually approaching the finals, as eight teams are left in the quarter final stage of the competition, which four clubs who defeats their opponents over a two legs fixture would progress to the semi finals, and two teams to the finals of the competition.









Manchester City, Liverpool, Chelsea, Bayern Munich, Borussia Dortmund, Paris Saint German, Real Madrid and Fc Porto are the eight teams left in the competition, of which two would play in the finals and also one club would emerge as the winner.

At this point of the competition, there are some clubs tagged as the favorites to win the competition this season, with the likes of the defending champions, Bayern Munich, and Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City side, but their are still underdogs in the race for the champions league title this season, which includes Chelsea and Paris Saint German.
In this article, we will be looking at the possible two teams that could reach the finals of this season’s champions league, that would be played in the Turkey Olympic staduim on 29th May.
1. Chelsea FC
Chelsea have a great chance of getting to this season’s Champions League finals, after they last reach the finals in 2012 and also won the trophy in Munich.
In that night at Munich in 2021, Chelsea created histroy by winning the trophy for the first time in the history of the club, marking the club’s biggest achievement ever.





Chelsea has been drawn to play Fc Porto in the quarter finals of the competition, which they are very confident of defeating the Portuguese club, and going into the semi finals to face either Liverpool or Real Madrid.Liverpool have not been their very best this season, as they are currently outside the top four in the Premier League, and have also recently been defeated by Chelsea in the league. Real Madrid form has also been up and down since Cristiano Ronaldo left the Spanish club.
Chelsea would fancy their chances of defeating any between Liverpool and Real Madrid in the semi finals of the competition, with the help of the tactical knowledge of Thomas Tuchel.
2. Bayern Munich
The German giant are currently the holders of the champions league trophy, and they would be facing last year’s finalist opponent in the quarter finals of the competition with the aim of repeating this same feat they achieve against Paris Saint German in the finals last season.





It would be a difficult match for the German club, considering the fact that the French champions would have revenge in mind, but Bayern Munich should have enough fire power to defeat the French club and progress further into the semi finals to face either Borussia Dortmund or Manchester City.

Manchester City is the most likely opponents for Bayern Munich to face in the semi finals, and the most difficult opponents they could get in that round.
Pep Guardiola would be aiming to win the title for the first time since he left Barcelona, and also the first time in the history of Manchester City.





Although Manchester city might have a tighter defensive set up than Bayern Munich, but the defending champions have a more deadly attacking frontline.

At this stage of the competition, the more you score, the more chances you have of going further into the competition, which might be an advantage for Bayern Munich to get to the finals ahead of Manchester City.
In the finals of this season Champions League competition, we might be seeing a repeat of the 2012 champions league finals fixtures between Bayern Munich and Chelsea FC.
Which two teams do you predicts to get to the finals of the Champions League this season, and who do you think would win the trophy?
Drop your opinions in the comment section below.


Share this on WhatsApp