Share this on WhatsApp

 


The Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) has urged Federal Government, Osun and Anambra governments to immortalise Comrades Yinka Odumakin and Innocent Chukwuma for their roles in promoting human rights.
The Chairman of CLO in Anambra, Mr Vincent Ezekwueme, made the call while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Tuesday.
Ezekwueme said that these human rights activists needed to be immortalise by tiers of governments as an appreciation for their invaluable and indispensable roles they played toward the current democratic governance and social justice.
According to him, it is correct to say that both falling heroes had natural inclination for the interest and social welfare of the citizenry and always stood for what is right, just and civil regardless the consequences.
The CLO boss noted that they always spoke truth to authorities and told them what they needed to know and do.
“It is irrefutable fact that Yinka Odumakin as chieftain of National Democratic Coalition (NADACO) and National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere fought with other patriots relentlessly and courageously against military dictatorship.
“Odumakin also fought against annulment of June 12 Presidential Election won by Chief MKO Abiola of Social Democratic Party.
“Comrade Innocent Chukwuma, as the Chairman of Ford Foundation for West Africa, rendered transparent, patriotic and selfless services to God and humanity.
“Chukwuma through his non-governmental organisation – CLEEN Foundation put smiles on the faces of those who can never pay him back.
“The greatest tributes governments, political class and Nigerians should pay to their memories is to spare no efforts towards eradication of human rights abuses and violations, injustices, nepotism, bad governance and man’s inhumanity against man.’’
Ezekwueme prayed God to forgive their shortcomings and accept their selfless, humble and gentle souls in paradise.
“God in His mercies should give Dr Joe Odumakin, Mrs Chukwumah, Afenifere, South-East based human rights organisations and all those affected by their demise fortitude, grace to bear and endure the irreparable and irreplaceable loss,’’ he said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp