Share this on WhatsApp





 


The Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP Usman Alkali Baba, on Wednesday, succeeded former IGP Mohammed Adamu, whose retirement was due about one month ago but had an extended tenure of three months by President Muhammadu Buhari.
IGP Baba resumed duty on Wednesday after his appointment by President Buhari on Tuesday; taking over from IGP Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, who retired after 35 years of service in the Force.
It was narrated that the handing/taking over of leadership between the former and new Police Chiefs was held in a brief but colourful ceremony at the Force Headquarters, Abuja. The event was climaxed with the symbolic handover of the Nigeria Police flag.
The new IGP, who is the 21st indigenous Inspector General of Police, thanked the President for the opportunity given him to serve the nation and humanity. He pledged to harness all human and material resources of the Force towards improving security, safety, law and order in the country.
It was highlighted that Ag. IGP Usman Alkali Baba, a fellow of the National Defence College, hails from Geidam, Yobe State. He was commissioned into the Nigeria Police Force on 15th March 1988 as a Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police at the prestigious Nigeria Police Academy (Annex), Kaduna. He holds a Masters’ Degree in Public Administration (MPA) and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science.
 
The IGP was identified as astute crime-fighter and versatile manager of men and resources. He was said to have held several strategic positions in the past cutting across all the departments of the Force. These include Ag. Deputy Inspector-General of Police in-charge of the Department of Finance and Administration, the Force Secretary, Assistant Inspector-General of Police in-charge of Zone-5 Benin, Zone-4 Makurdi and Zone-7 Abuja. He was also a former Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Delta Commands amongst others. Until his appointment as the Ag. IGP, Baba was the Deputy Inspector General of Police in-charge of the Force Criminal Investigations Department.
The new Ag. IGP Usman Alkali Baba holds a policing vision of enhancing police primacy in the protection of lives and property. He believes in the provision of motivational and credible leadership driven by professionalism and strategic planning, all directed at stabilizing internal security and modernizing police operations within the framework of citizens’ consent, trust, and the rule of law.
He has vowed to deal the criminals involved in kidnapping, banditry, the secessionists, among others.





Share this on WhatsApp