Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Biafra Nations League, BNL, a Pro Biafra group with operational base in Bakassi Peninsula as has warned the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike to stop threatening the Igbos from South East because of activities of Nnamdi Kanu’s led Indigenous people of Biafra, IPOB.
In a statement jointly signed by the Deputy National Leader of BNL and Head of Operations BBS Media, Ebuta Akor Takon, the Chief of Staff Linus Essien and the Operational Commander in Bakassi Peninsula, alias Aso Rock, BNL was reacting to the ban on Igbo group to hold meeting in Oyigbo.
BNL accused Wike of being sentimental against the Igbo despite that he is an Igbo man who claims Niger Delta, warning that treating the Igbo as terrorist could give rise to real terrorism in Rivers State.
“Our people in Bakassi have been clamouring for resettlement, there is another Peninsula bordering the ceded towns and as big as the ceded towns, and that area is swampy, they have been asking the government to establish presence there, fill the swamps so they can leave IDPs camps to begin a live there, the problem of Bakassi is beyond amnesty programs”.
BNL said it believed that the Bakassi issue will be addressed in a Biafran State, insisting that members of the group in the region are determined to fight for Biafra with their blood, they however warned Cameroon on the consequences of abducting inhabitants of the ceded towns to Yaounde, adding that the group will not fold hands to watch, BNL said it’s warning to oil companies still operating at the maritime boundary areas stand and would be enforced unexpectedly they said.
Biafra Nations League, BNL, has warned the Nigeria security operatives against arresting its officers in Bakassi Peninsula, the group disclosed that it has gathered information about how the Navy are harassing indigenes moving to and fro from Cameroon controlled areas in search of members of the group.
Rising from its leadership meeting in the Peninsula, BNL through a statement jointly signed by the National Leader, Princewill C Richard, Deputy National Leader, Ebuta Akor Takon, Chief of Staff, Linus Essien and operational commander in Bakassi known as Aso Rock said that the activities of the security operatives won’t save oil companies still operating in the Gulf of Guinea.
BNL warned that any security operatives that first attacked its members be it from Nigeria or Cameroon there shall be reprisals. “Any attack on our members, whether it is coming from Nigeria or Cameroon we shall launch reprisals, it’s another form of self-defense”.
They therefore called on all Service Chiefs to caution their men, saying that the operatives need to be educated on professionalism.
Share this on WhatsApp