Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A participant in the October 2020 #EndSARS protest, Serah Ibrahim, at the resumed sitting of the Lagos State Judicial Panel on Restitution for victims of SARS and other related matters on Saturday, attested that she was at the scene soldiers, later policemen, fire gun shots at unarmed #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos on October 20, 2020. Serah Ibrahim had at the previous sitting, admitted before the panel that she was at the protest ground in Lekki every day, coordinating some of the activities. She insisted that being an eyewitness to the shooting on the October 20 night.
Serah Ibrahim, being led in evidence by her counsel, Yinka Olumide-Fusika SAN, identified herself as a freelance auditor.
She presented, in evidence, two flash drives containing photos and videos; and presupposing  that the Lekki Concession Company (LCC) may have more visuals in its custody capable of exposing more facts on the Lekki shooting.
Serah revealed at the panel that over five different cameras were on the ground, noting that most of them were later removed.
Serah narrated how soldiers shot at the unarmed protesters, including the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), saying that some officers of the Maroko Police Station also shot at the unarmed protesters at Lekki. She presented one live bullet she picked at the scene.
Serah presenting a bullet, said: “This was the live one that was cocked in front of me; I picked it myself.” She further said that a hospital refused to disclose information on some of the #EndSARS protesters receiving treatment after the shooting at the Lekki protest venue.
The panel admitted the bullets in evidence as presented by Serah, who had insisted she picked then from the ground during the shooting.
The panel further granted the request of Counsel to Serah to summon the Director of Hospital Administration and HR of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), K. F. Gbajumo, who was said to have issued a memo restraining his staff from giving out information on the victims.
Serah is ready to present and play more of the videos she collected on the night of the shooting in furtherance of her evidence at the next sitting of the panel this week.
Share this on WhatsApp