Share this on WhatsApp
 


A cross-section of Nsukka residents has lauded the South-East Governors’ Forum for setting up a regional security outfit to help stem the rising wave of insecurity in the area.
The residents spoke in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Nsukka on Monday.
They described the formation of the outfit, called “Ebubeagu” as a welcome development.
The Traditional Ruler of Nru in Nsukka Local Government Area, Igwe Sylvanus Aruma, said the southeast governors demonstrated they were sensitive to the plight and expectations of the people.
“I am happy that the governors after their meeting in Owerri announced the setting up of an outfit to help flush out terrorists, armed bandits and criminal elements from the zone.
“The outfit will go a long way in addressing the security challenges in the zone, especially the constant clashes between famers and herdsmen.
“The shortage of foodstuffs and price hike are being experienced because many farmers can no longer go to their farms for fear of being attacked by suspected herdsmen,” Aruma said.
Dr Ifeanyichukwu Abada, a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Political Science, University of Nigeria, Ndukka, said he supported the governors’ action because the primary responsibility government is to protect lives and property.
“I commend the governors for the initiative, which will help to ensure that lives and property in the zone are protected.
“They should ensure that the outfit is well equipped to enable it to carry out its duties effectively,” he said.
Mr Fabian Onah, the LG Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party commended the governors’ “wise decision”, considering the increasing spate of insecurity in the area.
“The formation of the outfit will complement the efforts of security agencies to ensure adequate security of lives and property in the zone.
“No meaningful development will take place  in any society without adequate security for lives and property,” Onah said.
He urged those that would be engaged to work in the outfit to be upright in the discharge of their duties.
He also solicited the cooperation of residents of the zone to the outfit to enable it to succeed in its mission.
Also, the Chairman of the All Progressive Congress in the area, Mr Joseph Ugwuoke, said the outfit would help to end the incessant herder-farmer clashes and destruction of farmlands.
“The governors should ensure effective monitoring of the activities of the outfit so that it will achieve the purpose for its establishment,” Ugwuoke said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp