Share this on WhatsApp






Edison Cavani who joined United on a one-year deal in October, with the option of an additional 12 months has been in a sensational form with 12 goals for the Red Devils since his arrival thus justifying every reason that led Ole Gunnar Solskjaer bringing him to Old Trafford.
Meanwhile, the above feat has been achieved by Cavani without the cheers of Manchester United fans which would made the moments more cherishing for the Uruguayan.
However, National Daily gathered that the 34-year-old has been undecided about remaining in England beyond this season.
Meanwhile, the Uruguay international had initially enjoyed a difficult start when he had to spend time in isolation and thereafter got a three-match ban by the Football Association for a social media post.
Though the post was deemed offensive by FA, even when it was accepted Cavani had not been intentionally racist.
Rumours of Cavani leaving Old Trafford for Argentina’s Boca Juniors have been speculated especially when it was alleged that his father claimed that the 34-year-old former Napoli hitman is unhappy in England.
But with Cavani’s latest form especially after he scored twice and secured three assists in United’s 6-2 Europa League semi-final first leg win over Roma at Old Trafford on Thursday night, United boss, Solskjaer has confessed that he is trying hard to keep Cavani at the club.
“He knows my feelings,” said Solskjaer. “He knows I would love to have him here.
“Edinson is more than just a goal poacher. He is excellent at running the channels, being the focal point and bringing others into play.
“He is making up for lost time and I am delighted with him. Hopefully we will see him here for another year. I am doing my best. I promised him Old Trafford is a different place with fans.
“He must try to get that feeling, to be on our side. Manchester is a fantastic place to live. Of course nights like this, hopefully we can get to the final and hopefully he can see himself being here for another year.””
Although, United are due to play one home game in front of 10,000 supporters before the end of the season, but it would be undesirable and unaccomplished  if Cavani never got to properly sample the English experience with the full cheers of the Red Devil supporters.
Again, it would also seem incomplete if England never got to fully experience Cavani.
Above all, Cavani has demonstrated what an outstanding player he is and even with an additional privilege of tutoring the likes of Rashford and Mason Greenwood even though he doesn’t speak much English.
With Cavani’s accomplishments, it becomes obvious why Solskjaer and most United fans would want the Uruguayan remain at Old Trafford beyond this season.
 






Share this on WhatsApp