Share this on WhatsApp

 


Dr Shehu Sale, the Medical Director of Federal Neuro Psychiatric Hospital Kware, Sokoto State, has called on the hospital workers to ensure maximum compliance to public service rules and regulations.
Sale made the call at a one-day intensive training workshop tagged: ‘Best Approaches to Staff Management and Disciplinary Procedure in the Organization,’ organised by the hospital on Tuesday.
He said the training was to improve workers’ skills to improve their efficiency and professionalism.
According to him, ignorance of service rules should not be an excuse for flouting service regulations and procedures.
He said that appropriate disciplinary measures have been provided for those who flout rules governing all aspects of the civil service.
Sale said that the training programme would continue until all workers benefit.
The facilitator, Mr Buhari Abubakar of FODEE Consult and Media Services, said the participants would be made to appreciate existing public service regulations, disciplinary measures and other practices.
A resource person, Dr Abubakar Abdullahi from the Department of Political Science, Usmanu Danfodio University Sokoto, stressed the need for a manpower plan by institutions to avert redundancy, truancy and misplacement of positions.
This he said,  would help to enrich the governance system and ensure routine training of workers for more productivity and attainment of organisational goals.
Abdullahi challenged managerial staff to ensure transparent dealings in terms of recruitments, promotions and internal postings.
Another resource person, Dr Bashir Hussaini of UDUS Teaching Hospital said prompt promotion of workers served as an important motivation in ensuring service delivery.
Hussaini said effective ways of managing conflicts must be evolved, to insulate the organisation and ensure its success.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that no fewer than 60 workers from different departments
participated in the training.
 
Share this on WhatsApp