Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A security guard at the Banex Plaza in Abuja, Sargawak, has narrated how he was brutally attacked by the Chairman of the Code of conduct Tribunal, Justice Danladi Umar and his security details for asking him to park his vehicle and not obstruct traffic.
Speaking in pidgin English, he said, “I work as a security man stationed at the car park section at the old Banex Plaza. I was on duty when a man (Mr. Umar) arrived in his car at the plaza and I noticed he parked his vehicle wrongly.
“When I approached him to inform him about his wrong parking, because he had parked by the roadside obstructing other visitors arriving at the plaza, he came out and slapped me. When he slapped me, the driver also came down and slapped me and they tore my uniform and they stepped over me several times.
“It was the ‘Oga’ by himself (Mr Umar) that went to his car to pick up an iron rod in an attempt to hit me on my head. A tenant at the plaza quickly held his hand and pleaded with him on my behalf not to hit me with the metal.
“I later ran to meet my supervisor to come to my aid. I was unable to find my supervisor. But I later got my head guard to report my situation. On getting there, my head guard called the Banex police. I was slapped and kicked again by Mr Umar, policeman.”
 
Mr Sargwak said Mr Umar called the policemen and State Security Service operatives attached to him as security details from home and waited for them to arrive.
He said on the arrival of the security details, a policeman among them also slapped him “on the order of Mr. Umar.”
“When the police from Banex arrived at the scene, they tried calming the situation after speaking with him without success. The Oga called the police and SSS stationed at his residence and ordered the driver to go pick the security officers while he waited for them.
“Two witnesses, who declined to give their names for fear of possible victimization, told Premium Times that Justice Umar assaulted Sargwak in defiance of pleas from people around.
He said after spending some time at the Maitama police division, the Banex plaza’s lawyer arrived to free him.
“As we returned to the Banex Plaza in the evening at about 7pm, I saw him (Umar) with my two eyes open. They came to arrest a man, Peter Onyiuke, who had helped him pick up his phone and immediately returned; because his phone had dropped on the floor when he was beating me.
Nigerians have been calling for the sacking, arrest and trial of the CCT chairman due to his embarrassing show of shame as captured on a video by an eyewitness, saying he is not fit to hold a public office.
Share this on WhatsApp