Share this on WhatsApp
 


A shoe giant in the US, Nike, has filed a legal suit against a company, MSCHF Product Studio, for making Satan Shoes for a music rapper, Lil Nas X.
Nike was furious with the company, MSCHF Product Studio, which masterminded the making of “Satan Shoes” known as “blood Shoes”, for Lil Nas X. It was indicated that the shoes have satanic and devilish network and Nike does not want to associate with the trade mark or product.
Nike has sued MSCHF Product Studio, the company which in cooperation with the rapper, Lil Nas X, made the Satan Shoe, known as the “blood shoes”, being sold in the US. It was gathered that MSCHF Product Studio buys the shoe from Nike, then, rebrand the product, using artist to redesign the emblem on the shoes. The company apparently distribute the Satan shoes as an extended brand of Nike.
There are concerns that Lil Nas has been deeply committed to promoting the demonic shoes in the US. However, he was not a defendant in the Nike legal suit. There are, though, indications that the suit could be amended, or the rapper may be personally sued, if Nike so decides in time to come.
It was highlighted that the Nike Air Max 97 shoes contain features of satanic pentagram symbol, a Bible verse that references Satan, including a drop of blood from one of MSCHF’s employees. The product also has 666 pairs, and presently being sold at over $1,000 per pair. It was indicated by Lil Nas X and the company that the shoes, generating society disapproval, sold out in less than a minute.
With reference to documents said to be obtained by TMZ, Nike was said to be protesting that the company has been tricking consumers into believing the Satan shoes were approved. It was indicated that Nike dissociated itself from the product, maintaining it never approved or authorize brand; and “is in no way connected with this project.”
Nike had acknowledged that MSCHF purchases the shoes from Nike, but the artists MSCHF works with make creative modifications to reflect the market intentions before distributing the brand for sales at a higher price to their customers.
Nike is, therefore, suing MSCHF for trademark infraction, complaining that the notable Swoosh logo is still visibly featured on X’s shoes. Nike requested the judge to prohibit further sales of the Satan Shoe, demanding damages, and other sanctions.
There were, however, skepticism whether Nike is on mere face-saving contention, or Christians and Conservatives are complaining that the brand attracts their attention. Moreover, more concerns were said to be arising that the end time may be drawing near and the battle line with Satan had been drawn.
Share this on WhatsApp