Share this on WhatsApp

Re-appoints CP Frank Mba FPRO, Ag. CP Idowu Owohunwa PSO





 


There is uneasy calm at the Louis Edet House Headquarters of the Nigeria Police Force as Acting Inspector General Usman Alkali Baba, on Friday, commenced the restructuring of the Nigeria Police Force under his leadership.
The IGP, accordingly, approved the posting of AIG Hafiz Inuwa, as the Force Secretary and member of the Force Management Team. The IGP also approved the re-appointment of CP Frank Mba as the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Force Headquarters, Abuja, and Ag. CP Idowu Owohunwa as Principal Staff Officer (PSO) to the IGP.
According to a statement in Abuja on Friday by CP Frank Mba, Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Force Headquarters, Abuja, the new Force Secretary, AIG Hafiz Inuwa, has taken over from AIG Mustapha Dandaura, who has been redeployed to Zone-7 Police Headquarters, Abuja.
AIG Hafiz Inuwa holds a Masters Degree in Public Policy and Administration (MPPA). It was highlighted that prior to his appointment as the Force Secretary, Inuwa was the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone-13 Ukpo-Dunukofia in Awka, Anambra State, covering Anambra and Enugu State Police Commands. He also previously served as the Commissioner of Police in charge of Delta and Cross River States, amongst other strategic positions. He is a member of the prestigious National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPPS), Kuru, Jos.
The statement further highlighted that  CP Frank Mba, a lawyer and a member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), is also an alumnus of the University of Dundee, Scotland, the United Kingdom, where he earned a Master’s Degree in Law. An IVLP scholar, he holds a Diploma in Police Strategic Management from the University of Virginia, USA and a graduate of the prestigious FBI National Academy (FBINA) in Quantico, Virginia, USA. He also holds a Certificate in National and International Security from Harvard University, USA. A veteran Public Relations (PR) practitioner, he is being re-appointed as the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO) and the Image-maker for the Nigeria Police Force for the third time
The statement further indicated that    Ag. CP Idowu Owohunwa, the newly re-appointed Principal Staff Officer to the Inspector General of Police (PSO-IGP), holds a Bachelor’s degree in International Studies from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and a Master’s Degree in Criminal Justice Studies and Policing from the University of Leeds, United Kingdom. A Chevening Scholar, Ag. CP Owohunwa also holds a Diploma in Police Strategic Management at the University of Virginia, USA and a graduate of the globally recognized FBI National Academy in Quantico, Virginia, USA.
Ag. CP Owohunwa was the PSO-IGP between 2015 and 2016, and to the immediate past Inspector General of Police. This re-appointment marked the third time he is holding the position as the Principal Staff Officer to the Inspector-General of Police, the statement indicated.
The FPRO further disclosed that the IGP has ordered the posting of the following officers; CSP Idris Abdullahi Abubakar as the PSO II to the IGP, SP Isah Abdulhamid as PA-IGP, SP Nura Kabir Hanga as Secretary – IGP, amongst other personal aides.
The Senior Police Officers are expected to bring their professional and intellectual exposure to bear in assisting the IGP and his Management Team in developing/implementing strategic policing policies and plans, all directed at stabilizing internal security, modernizing police operations and restoring police primacy in the protection of lives and property of citizens, CP Mba said.
The FPRO declared that all appointments/postings of the Senior Officers and personal aides take immediate effect.
Customarily, every newly appointed Chief of the Nigeria Police embarks on appointments aimed at positioning the Force to align with the vision of the new leadership. During this period Senior Officers who head various formations and departments are usually on the alert of possible redeployment.




Share this on WhatsApp