Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State had expressed shock over the attack on Monday night in Nkalaha, Obegu, Amazu, Nkalagu and Umuhuali rural communities, and the killing of about 22 persons in the operation by Fulani herdsmen after the efforts to accommodate the herdsmen in the state.
Governor Umahi, visiting the communities last Tuesday, expressed disgust over damages done by the invading herdsmen. The governor expressed sadness over the destruction and killings by the herdsmen.
“I got very shocking news this afternoon about the attack on about four communities in the state.
“We feel so sad that this kind of thing should happen in Ebonyi, we feel so worried for our country Nigeria and we are short of words.
“We condemn this attack because it is capable of causing very serious killings, if allowed to continue this way,” the governor had decried.
It was gathered that tension was mounting after the killings on Monday evening by herdsmen in the four communities in Ebonyi State. Sources disclosed that the able bodied men were gathering for reprisal attacks and counter-killings after the attack in Umuhuali, Nkalaha, Obeagu, Nkalagu, and Amazu in Ishielu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State.
The herdsmen were said to be shooting sporadically during the invasion of the communities, killing the victims at different locations in the communities. The Fulani herdsmen were also said to have burnt motorcycles of the residents of the communities being attacked to prevent using the motorcycles to reinforce or pursue the invaders on their escape routes.
Residents of the communities were said to have decried that they had been living in peace with the herdsmen, but suddenly, they woke up to see gifts of corpses.
The herdsmen were said to have carried out the attacks using AK-47 rifles.
Governor Umahi was, however, said to have assured residents of the invaded communities that the government will do all within its powers to bring the perpetrators to justice. The governor had also appealed to the people of the state for restraint, and desist from reprisal attacks.
Share this on WhatsApp