Share this on WhatsApp
kicks on propose chamber location

The Lagos State House of Assembly committee on Local Government Development and Community Affairs has urged the Executive chairman of Oriade Local Council Development Area Hon. Ramota Oseni to situate the proposed legislative chamber within the council premises.


The initial plan according to the council boss was to enhance effective legislative delivery of the councillors.


The Chairman of the committee Hon. Olawale Sobur implored the council chairman while on an oversight tour to the council.


Speaking during the committe visit to the council, Nulge Chairman of Oriade LCDA, Mr. Olu Faniyi, told the committee that the council had 292 staffs and ,150 non-pensionable staffs who had been enjoying a cordial and smooth relationship with the council boss.


“We the NULGE had been receiving financial support worth 600 thousand naira monthly but asking for the increment to 1million naira, we do receives material and financial support during each festive period for our members

and had received palliatives four consecutive times during the pandemic.



While checking the books the  council engineer was upbraided by a member of the committeee Hon. Kehinde Joseph who observed shaddy moves as regards an approved road done by the council on CBN road and asked why the road was not seen on their way to the council.


The council engineer, explained that its was not the main road but an inner road within the road where picture and video where shown as proves.


Another issue raised was when the vice Chairman of the council Hon. Moshood Olanrewaju claimed not to have knowledge of several projects carried out by the council’s tender board which negates laid down procedures as he ought to be the chairman of the board.


On his own part, Hon. Sulaimon Agenjo pointed out the need for Councillors to be accorded maximum respect in the council, claiming they represent the peoples interest and are the next in rank after the Chairman and his Vice and not the cabinet members because they were all elected in like manner.


The committee also reconciled  the Chairman and his vice urging him carry the vice chairman along in all contracts that comes in and out of the council.


The committee continue its tour to Amuwo Odofin local Government under the leadership of Engr. Valentine Buraihmoh where political issues where resolved between the Executive, Exco’s and the legislative.


The committee also visited and commended the council chairman for the ongoing primary health care centre building built inside the council premises as part of a campaign promise well kept.

 


 
Share this on WhatsApp