Share this on WhatsApp





The Abdulwahid Islamic Foundation in Lagos State has stated its resolve to ensure the wellbeing of faithful during and after the Ramadan fasting period has provided free medical services, drugs and food items to indigents in Agboyi-Ketu Area of Lagos.

The President of the Foundation, Ishaq Alabi in his chat with newsmen at the commencement of programmes lined up for the 11th Ramadan Lecture and Special Prayer for the Nation of the foundation scheduled for Sunday.

Alabi said that, though the foundation only planned for 50 beneficiaries, more than 80 people benefitted from the largesse.

“Our 2021 Ramadan lecture and special prayers for the nation holding tomorrow April 25 is preceded by this geture of providing free medical services and distribution of food items to the poor.

“We have to come together as a community to uphold common interests by caring for the indigents in the neighbourhood.

“This is to assist the poor who need medical services but have no money to seek such in conventional hospital,” he said.

According to him, the gesture was made possible through the foundation’s partnership with some medical consultants, Drugfield Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Succour Foundation and Mr Dele Oshinowo, Executive Chairman of Agboyi Ketu LCDA.

 He added, “We have checked the health status of our people and made prescriptions relating to the for health challenges they have. We gave them them free
drugs in order for them to keep  fit.”

According to him, the foundation carried out blood tests, measure blood pressure, GMI test and free consultation with medical doctors with drugs being provided within our capacity.

Alabi said that after the consultation, the doctors also prescribed some other drugs that the foundation did not have.

When asked how much had gone into the gesture, Alabi said that such was unquantifiable considering the medical services, tests, drugs and other consumables.

The president enjoined all Muslim faithful to seize the opportunity of the 30-day Ramadan period to offer prayers to the Almighty God for complete restoration of the Nation.

He said that the Ramadan lecture, theme “Re-Positioning the Family for National Development: Raising Positive Kids Through Responsible Parenting”, will be delivered by Shaykh Abdur-Razaq Abdul Malik.

Some of the beneficiaries, who commended the foundation for the gesture, urged the government to do more in making health services affordable to the poor.

Mrs Amo Kudirat, a petty trader said,” This is good and we want to thank this foundation. Drugs are expensive in the market and they have given us free drugs after we complained our problems to them.”

Also speaking, Mrs Anis Bamigboye, who also thanked the foundation, urged the government across levels to make health services and drugs affordable to the common man.

Another beneficiary, Mr Olaitan Tope, who also commended the organisers for the gesture, said that the test carried out on him would have cost him a huge some in the hospital.





Share this on WhatsApp