Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday showed signs of succumbing to pressure from the protesters in London, the United Kingdom (UK), demanding his immediate return to Nigeria and foregoing his earlier plan to see his doctor in London. The Nigerian president, perhaps, succumbing to pressure, explained that he is not in the UK for medical services but taking a short rest in London.
President Buhari in his letter on Thursday to King Abdullah ll Bin Al-Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, to acknowledge the resolution of a recent rift in the royal family, said that he felt much disturbed when he heard reports of the problem but felt reassured when he learnt that everything had been resolved amicably.
The president had departed the shires of Nigeria Tuesday last week with explanation from the presidency that he was going to see his doctor in the UK, a medical appointment the presidency said was long overdue.
Buhari in the letter declared: “While here in London taking a short rest, I was profoundly disturbed to read from international news agencies of attempts to destabilise the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.”
President Buhari noted that the King’s exemplary leadership since ascending the throne has attracted worldwide admiration.
Buhari stated  that the relations between Nigeria and Jordan have been excellent, adding: and “I thank you for the part you have played in this relationship.
‘‘Your Majesty, I am much heartened that matters have now been resolved and I pray that the Hashemite Kingdom continues to not only remain peaceful, but also a major beacon of hope for the region under Your Majesty’s wise guidance.”
President Buhari’s visit to London has been controversial. He did not transmit power to the vice president, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, before departure. The presidency insisted Buhari can govern Nigeria from anywhere in the world through the internet. Secondly, the president departed for the UK on a day that doctors commenced national strike in Nigeria.
The protesters at the Abuja House in London had been agitating the failure of the president to build functional hospitals in Nigeria but sustained frequent medical tour to London.
Share this on WhatsApp