Share this on WhatsAppThe dearth of deliberate inculcation of moral knowledge and cultural values in the Nigerian child by their parents,  has been cited as the root cause of all forms of social vices that now plagues the nation.

An Islamic Scholar Shaykh Abdur-Razaq Abdul-Malik made this assertion while delivering the Ramadan lecture on the theme; “Re-Positioning the Family for National Development: Raising Positive Kids through Responsible Parenting”.

Abdul-Malik said: “The message we are passing is nothing than what has been stipulated by the Almighty God. For any nation building, it has to start from the family.Parenting starts from the father and the mother not schools.

“This has to do with human character molding and good morals inculcated in the children by parents.This will transit from family to society and the world at large.

“Any family that does not take care of children is endangering the future of not only such family but the society. So, to build the nation, we need to start from the foundation which is the family.”

The guest speaker said that in the last 30 years, responsible parenting had been at its lowest ebb in the country with a grave consequence of myriads of social vices bedevilling the country.

He said that education without morals would not take the nation far, adding that the aftermath of parental failure informs why many families suffer some degrees of pain even the community and the society at large.

Other clerics who also made contributions on the negative aftermath of misplaced social value in the nation, hinged the clear cut loss of grip on proper parenting, took turns to emphasise this at the 11th Ramadan Lecture and Special Prayer for the Nation organised by the Abdulwahid Islamic Foundation in Lagos.

The Grand Patron of the foundation, Shaykh Abdur-Rofi’i Muh. Awwal said that the theme of the lecture was chosen based on the challenges facing the nation.

“There is no harmony and security. We thought the foundation of the problem is the smallest unit of society which is the family. If parents realise their roles to  teach their children morals, this nation will not be destroyed.

“If we don’t teach and train our children, they will bring headaches, restlessness, pains, and sorrow to the family and the nation.

” My message to parents is that they should not rely on the teachers at the schools or alfas in the mosques but take responsibility for training their children.,” he said.

Another speaker, Mr Olanrewaju Lawal, noted that poor parenting had worsened national,social and economic security.


In his remarks, the Director, National Orientation Agency (NOA),  Lagos State, Mr Waheed Ishola said that training of children should not be left in the hand of mothers alone but by both parents to create a better society.

Ishola, who said that the theme of the lecture would not have come at a better time than now noted that the society was filled with a lot of decadence.

 He said that responsible parents should model the kind of behaviour they like to see in their wards, urging love, discipline and affection for children.

The  Special Guest of Honour and Chairman of Agboyi-Ketu LCDA, Mr Dele Oshinowo urged parents and clerics to go back to the holy books and start rebuilding families, saying the nation could not move forward without responsible parenting.

Oshinowo urged religious leaders to work harder in preaching and admonishing parents and children on morality to reshape the negative trends of insecurity and criminality in the country.

Special prayers were also offered for the nation to be restored to the path of peace, progress and development.

The Founder Abdulwahid Islamic foundation, Comrade Waheed Odunuga also distributed food stuffs to participants to help them break their fast with less hassle.



Share this on WhatsApp