Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Federal Government will do everything to ensure that security is beefed up in communities affected by recent communal clashes and violent attacks in Ebonyi State, while ensuring justice for victims, according to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN.
Prof. Osinbajo stated this on Easter Sunday afternoon during a visit to Ebonyi State after attending Resurrection Sunday service at the Aso Villa Chapel.
While in the state, the Vice President stopped at the Egedegede community in Ishielu Local Government Area, which suffered suspected herdsmen attacks recently and Ezza/Effium communities in Ohaukwu Local Government Area where communal clashes had occurred.
The Vice President was accompanied on the visit to the affected areas by the Ebonyi State Governor, Engr. David Umahi, who received him at his first stop at Ishielu LGA. He had earlier been welcomed by the Enugu State Governor, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu from where he drove to Ebonyi State.
 On the VP’s delegation were the Information and Culture Minister Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Steel & Mines Development Minister of State Mr. Uche Ogah and the Special Adviser on Political Affairs to the President, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, among other dignitaries.
According to the Vice President, “there is no way we can, by saying sorry, fully compensate for the lives that have been lost and property destroyed. I want you to know that one way we can do something is by seeking justice and providing for the families of those who have lost their homes and we would do so.”
He added that government will ensure justice is done and the perpetrators brought to book, while urging the people of the communities to remain calm and avoid reprisal attacks.
 “Anybody who watches another person killed next to him and does not feel angry and pained, and doesn’t feel the person deserves justice must answer to God ultimately. So, don’t be under any illusion, we will make sure so long as it lies within our power, that we will seek justice and get justice.
At the Ezza and Effium communities in Ohaukwu LGA, the VP noted that the President was extremely concerned about the recent unfortunate incidents.
While emphasizing the need for politicians and other category of leaders to prioritize the welfare of their people, Prof. Osinbajo stated that, “politicians who try and create a crisis by milking the death of their people…that is completely irresponsible.
“There is no excuse for it. It is the duty of leaders, political leaders to moderate their statements and to make sure that their statements don’t worsen matters and create a crisis,” he added.
 The Vice President added that the Federal Government will collaborate with the State Government to ensure peace in the affected areas and justice for the victims of the separate incidents.
 On his part, Governor Umahi, while thanking the President, Vice President and the entire Federal Government for the steps taken so far to address the concerns, noted that justice and fairness were the only demands requested by the people of the state.
 He appealed to the Vice President to support the rebuilding of the affected areas even as measures should be taken to provide immediate relief to displaced persons.
Share this on WhatsApp