Share this on WhatsApp





The lawmaker representing Amuwo Odofin Constituency 1 in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. MojisolaOluwa Alli-Macaulay has urged the youth of her constituency to support the state government so that more dividends of democracy would be attracted to the area.

Alli-Macaulay, who was addressing some youths from her constituency on Thursday, stated that many people misunderstand the roles of lawmakers as against what the executive does.

On the allegation that she said “The Youth Are High On Drugs” at plenary few months back, Alli-Macaulay stated that everything that is discussed in the Assembly is based on an order paper and the topic that was discussed on the said day was on the order paper of that day – which was the unrest in the nation at the time, that had led to the destruction of state property by hoodlums running to trillions of naira.

“I was the 38th person that spoke that day. That was when I made my own suggestion, expressing my discontent and also wondering how things escalated to that point and that carnage was a taboo in the state”.

“I never mentioned Amuwo Odofin in my statement. In my statement I said the parents should also be blamed for some of these things as it is their duty to train up a child because the family is the smallest unit of a Nation. We were talking about hoodlums at the time not Nigerian youths, She said and Amuwo Odofin youth confirmed.

“They burnt several places in the state even those of The Lagos State Public Works (LSPW) – the same organization meant to carry out public works in the state including amuwo odofin – When I called them to help me do some things in Amuwo Odofin, they said they had no equipment due to the destruction.

“If I had said something out of place, the Speaker would have called me to order. I also said that the National Population Commission (NPC) should do another population census so that we could have an accurate data base to tackle certain issues in the nation because with data, a lot of these issues bothering the youth can be addressed.


She also spoke on the hoarding of palliative allegation that was leveled against her noting that”it happened that the COVID 19 Relief materials given to us was moved to the constituency office to be distributed to its rightful owners just at the time of my birthday celebration and I had women groups come in their numbers because I wanted to celebrate with them, I gave out Popcorn Machines, Sewing Machines, Hair dryers,  Grinding machines, Ankara and Other Gifts and the beneficiaries of these are; Amuwo odofin Market women association, Amuwo Odofin widows Association
WOWICAN, Arewa women,
Ohaneze women, APC Ndigbo Amuwo, Adamawa Michika women Voice of oteyi FIRA Women,FOMWAN,FIMC,SOUTH SOUTH women,CDC,All ARTISAN Women and more.
I’m a woman, we have milk of kindness in our hearts.

“Don’t follow the crowd, just give us a little time, she admonished the youth further, If you contest INEC election, for the first term, you are still battling with the money you spent and the efforts you put into it”.

Alli-Macaulay revealed with facts that she had actually done many projects for her constituents, but that as a lawmaker, her job description is to deliberate on the problems of the people and make laws.

She stated that it was not her job to build roads, revealing further that she had done many borehole projects in Amuwo Odofin from her personal earnings and equally empowered a lot of people as she pulled out the records.

“I am a mother and a wife, so I will not allow people to suffer. It is not easy and it’s not because I don’t want to do anything for the youths.

“We organized Children Party as well,having spent a lot of money helping hundreds of women. We have all the records.

The lawmaker urged the youths to see her as a partner in progress on the development of the area. She went on to encourage the youths of Amuwo Odofin, gave kudos to them for their perseverance, while she also encouraged them to take advantage of the ongoing membership registration of the All Progressive Congress, and take very good advantage of the ” Not to young to run bill.” To also get the opportunity to serve and make impact.

The lawmaker in her closing remarks charged the youths that, “It is time to synergize and I have beautiful plans for the Amuwo Odofin Youths.”






Share this on WhatsApp