Share this on WhatsApp
A former Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Adeyemi Ikuforijin, says the clamour for restructuring in Nigeria was necessitated by mis-governance of the country in the past.
Ikuforijin spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday at the Lying-in-State, Service of Songs and Tributes of the late spokesman of the pan- Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, which took place at Police College, Ikeja, Lagos.
According to him, late Odumakin fought for the good of the masses all through his lifetime.
Ikuforijin said: “Odumakin was not just fighting for restructuring, he was fighting against mis-governance.
“If Nigeria is properly governed at all levels, most of us will not be talking about restructuring.
“He believed the mis-governance should stop, He believed the injustice should stop.
“For all of us to have gathered here to celebrate a man who lived barely 55 years is to tell the world that he had done much more than what those who lived and doubled his age did for Nigeria.”
Meanwhile, Sen. Opeyemi Bamiidele, told newsmen that restructuring, which late Odumakin stood and died for, was non-negotiable to move forward as a nation.
Bamidele said: “Today, we are here to pay our respect to Yinka Odumain. And, as far as some of us are concerned, there cannot be a better way to pay respect to him than re-emphasising the fact that Yinka lived for a cause.
“We must do everything possible to ensure that cause is not in vain. One of the things Yinka stood up for was the need to restructure Nigeria. As far as we are concerned, restructuring Nigeria is non-negotiable.
“We must have a security architecture and policing system that will reflect a restructured Nigeria.
“We must have an economic system and equality that will reflect restructuring of Nigeria. We definitely cannot run away from it. For me, the struggle continues.”
Also speaking, Mr Reid Adebor, the Senior Special Assistant to Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State on Civil Society, described the late activist as a hero of democracy.
“Yinka Odumakin shined the path of millions who were determined to make a change. Yinka was a fearless soldier who refused to bow to unjust society.
“He was a bull and a terror against injustice. He was an example of God’s creation who made a positive impact on the nation,” he said.
NAN reports that the event was graced by a host of civil society and ethnic groups, political stalwarts, lawmakers and many friends and acquaintances of late Odumakin.
Among the dignitaries were Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, former Govs. Peter Obi of Anambra, Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun, Olusegun Mimiko of Ondo, Speaker House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Sen. Opeyemi Bamidele, Sen. Basir Ajibola, leaders of Afenifere and many others.

Share this on WhatsApp