Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Kaduna State government says five out of the 39 students kidnapped from the College of Forestry Mechanization in March have been found by Nigerian troops.
In a statement issued by the government on Monday, April 5, 2021, Samuel Aruwan, Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs said the rescued students are currently undergoing an extensive medical check-up at a military facility.
“The Nigerian military has informed the Kaduna State Government that five of the many kidnapped students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka, Kaduna were recovered this afternoon and are presently in a military facility where they are undergoing a thorough medical check-up.
“The Kaduna State Government will provide updates on further operational feedback to be received on this case.” The statement said
Meanwhile, parents of the 39 kidnapped students have accused the federal government of keeping silent over the incidents.
In a statement by the group, they argued that the kidnapping was due to the failure of the government to live up to its primary responsibility of securing life and property.
“We observe with disappointment that in the Easter message by the Governor, there was no mention whatsoever of the students or any assurance of what government is doing to ensure their release. For us it was a confirmation of our fear that the government has abandoned our children. We can never abandon our children and we will do whatever we can to see that we get them back.
“Furthermore, we read in the media the statement credited to the Commissioner of Internal Security, Mr Samuel Aruwan, to the end that anyone who negotiates the release of the students will be prosecuted. For us the statement is unfortunate and another demonstration of callousness on the part of the government. We have been beaten, and we are now forced not to cry. We are the parents of these children and if their lives mean nothing to the government, they mean everything to us.
“We call on all Nigerians and the international Community to support us in our efforts for the safe return to us of our children soonest.
Share this on WhatsApp