Share this on WhatsApp






The legal rape battle between former Manchester United hero Cristiano Ronaldo and former model Kathryn Mayorga rages on.
National Daily can recall that the former has previously accused the latter of sexually assaulting her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 – which he ‘firmly’ denies.
Report reaching National Daily reveals that Mayorga is now claiming for £56million in damages.
Newly released courts documents reveal the amount former model Kathryn Mayorga is seeking after accusing the footballer of sexually assaulting her in a Las Vegas hotel room after meeting on a night out in 2009.
She wants £18m for “past pain and suffering”, £18m for “future pain and suffering” and £18m in punitive damages.
Amazingly, the 37-year-old’s expenses rack up to £1.4m with legal fees of £1.1m giving a total of £56.5m – equal to two years of the Juventus star’s salary.
Interestingly for Ronaldo’s fans, the 36-year old Portuguese captain has always ­vigorously denied Mayorga’s claims.
National Daily understood that Mayorga accepted a whopping $375,000 (£270,000) as part of an out-of-court non-disclosure settlement in 2010.
But three years ago, Mayorga in another twist filed a civil lawsuit in Las Vegas with the claims that she had been “mentally incapacitated” when she agreed to it and signed it under duress
Her legal team has filed a list of more than 60 witnesses they want to testify.
They include British former Big Brother star Jasmine Lennard, 35, who claims she dated the former Manchester United ace 10 years ago.
Also on the list are three police officers who investigated the original complaint, Juventus chairman Andrea Agnelli, ­Ronaldo’s agent Jorge Mendes and adviser Andy Quinn.
Meanwhile, Ronaldo has maintained his innocence: “I firmly deny the accusations being issued against me.
“Rape is an abominable crime that goes against everything that I am and believe in.”
The question begging for an answer is what could be Ronaldo’s next step away from this rape allegation.






Share this on WhatsApp