Share this on WhatsApp
The Biafra Nations League (BNL) has raised alarm that Fulani militia now disguise as Biafra agitators to commit crimes in the southeast and blackmail genuine peaceful separatist agitators.  BNL Deputy National Leader, Ebuta Akor Takon, after a brief meeting with the National Leader, Princewill Chimezie Richard, and Ejagham members of the group in Ekukunela, Ikom Local Government Area in Cross River State, raised red alert that some northern political leaders are sponsoring Fulani militias, now branded unknown gunmen, to unleash mayhem on the southeast, under the guise of   Biafra separatist agitators.
Ebuta Akor Takon pointed out that the activities of the gunmen have become suspicious, noting that arms struggle, attacks on security facilities, banks and stores in the southeast were not part of the Biafran agitation agenda. He condemned the recent attacks in Anambra and Enugu states where an armed group robbed and looted banks and stores, hoisted Biafra flags. The BNL deputy national leader stated that “there is a plot to blackmail pro Biafra groups.” He affirmed that the Biafra struggle does not include armed robbery and looting of people’s property.
Ebuta Akor Takon stated that Miyetti Allah had already recruited and deployed 5000 Fulani security personnel to the southeast before threatening to deploy Fulani militia as security agents to the southeast.
The deputy national leader of BNL cautioned that the violence activities in the southeast and some parts of south-south will not only devastate the Biafra territory but would affect the neighboring Middle Belt where the Fulani militia are taking refuge and recruiting to launch attacks.
Akor Takon remarked that the killing of a commander of the Eastern Security Network, (ESN) Ikonso Don, by joint operatives of the Nigeria Army, Police and DSS cannot resolve the crisis in the southeast. “It is expected, the young man has paid his price for what he believes in, but the killings will not solve anything,” the BNL Deputy National Leader declared.
 
Share this on WhatsApp