Share this on WhatsApp
The Biafra National League (BNL) has cautioned the Nigerian security agencies, comprising the Nigerian Army, Police, and others, to desist from any form of attack on the Bakassi Peninsula where members of the BNL operate. BNL Chief Head of Operations, Henry Edet, had in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State cautioned that members of the League are not scared or intimidated by the Nigerian military, saying that they have already signed their death warrant, and, therefore, are prepared to confront any military force.  The BNL, accordingly, dared the security operatives to launch similar operations in Bakassi Peninsula as they did in Imo State, killing members of the Easter Security Network (ESN); threatening that the security operatives will face consuming fire.
BNL Chief Head of Operations, Henry Edet, in a media interaction in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, threatened that the “Nigeria security operatives will see something different if they touch any officer of the group, especially in Bakassi Peninsula.” It was indicated that BNL members dominate the Bakassi Peninsula region.
BNL had condemned the operations of the joint security team, comprising the Army, Police, DSS, etc, that killed the Commander of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), Ikonso Don, in Imo State, established by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The BNL warned that a repeat of such military operations will worsen the security situation in southeast Nigeria.
The BNL Chief Head of Operations, Henry Edet, maintained that members of the League will not attack security operatives except when being attacked by the Nigerian military. “Members of the BNL militia wing have already signed their death warrant, attacks from security agencies will not scare them away,” Edet declared.
He disclosed that BNL will carry out aggressive activities in Bakassi Peninsula on May 30 to mark the anniversary of the declaration of Biafra Republic by Late Chief Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, in addition to other programs which include hoisting of Biafra flags and the ban on travelers from 7.00am-12.00pm in the Gulf of Guinea. This may be in addition to the annual restriction of movement by IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, in Igbo land in commemoration of the same anniversary.
Share this on WhatsApp