Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
J.J. Omojuwa, owner of Alpha Reach Media, who paid his fellows on Twitter in sustaining #FreeAlex Saab campaign, is getting into deeper problem.
A former director on board his PR firm, Obi Ezekwesili has petitioned IGP  Baba Othman, attaching evidence of fraudulent misrepresentation among other criminalities she pinned on Omojuwa.
She asked the police boss to prosecute the 37-year-old who rose to fame after tweeting for 11 years.
In the petition titled‘ Petition Against Mr Japheth Omojuwa for Forgery, Fraudulent Misrepresentation and Fraudulent Use of the Name, Identity and Particulars of Mrs. Obiageli Ezekwesili as a Director of Alpha Reach Limited RC No: 1066507’, the former minister and co-founder of the Transparency International, said she got to know about Omojuwa’s forgery through Buzzfeed.
The US news media earlier unearthed the role Omojuwa played in buying retweets for the Venezuelan money launderer Saab arrested in Cape Verde while on the run from the long arm of the US.
“Japheth Omojuwa never sought for her consent and /or participation in incorporating any company whatsoever and for any purpose whatsoever. The said Japheth Omojuwa neither sought for nor obtained requisite incorporation documents and information the CAC would require in processing the registration i.e the particulars of directors, share numbers, signature of directors, means of identification of directors and address etc.,” she said in the petition.
“Our client reiterates for emphasis that she never filled or signed the statutory consent of first directors of Alpha Reach Company Limited in 2012 and or at anytime whatsoever.”
Although Omojuwa, through his lawyer Babalakin and Co. insisted he told the former minister, who had been a fairy godmother to him, in 2012 when the company was incorporated, and that she was removed in 2017.
But Ezekwesili, through her own lawyer Falana and Falana Chambers, told the IG that throughout the time she was fraudulently made a director in the company, no notice of meetings, annual returns, accounts or board resolutions were issued to her.
Nor was she notified in 2017 when she was removed.
“We submit that the foregoing infractions amount to forgery, fraudulent misrepresentation and egregious breach of extant provisions of the Penal Code Law, the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015 and the Companies and Allied Matters Act deserving of investigation and prosecution,” the petition added.
 
Share this on WhatsApp