Share this on WhatsApp
A 28-page report by the Institute of Security Studies has rvealed that no fewer than 4000 fighters have left the rank of Boko Haram since the insurgence began over a decade ago.
The Jihadist terror covers four countries around the Lake Chad Basin: Nigeria, Niger, Chad, and Cameroon.
According to the report, the deserters from the four Lake Chad Basin countries (Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria) are leaving for various reasons which include safety concerns.
Boko Haram and other terror groups have terrorised the Lake Chad Basin countries for over 10 years.
According to the report, 2,400 desertions are recorded for Chad, 1,000 for Nigeria, 584 for Cameroon and 243 for Niger.
Among motives for leaving Boko Haram include individual circumstances, safety concerns and the groups’ internal dynamics.
“On the individual level, some people disengage because their expectations – based on religious ideals or economic opportunities – have not been met.
“For others, poor living conditions in the camps are a factor, the exposure to intensifying military offensives such as air strikes by Lake Chad Basin countries and the effective deployment of the Multinational Joint Task Force make the situation untenable,” the report partly read.
It also said the terrorists also impose harsh restrictions on members, along with permanent surveillance and corporal punishment for those suspected or convicted of deviating from the groups’ rules.
On Boko Harams internal dynamics, stringent rules apply: immorality’, stealing, drug abuse, etc.
“Within the group, the uneven application of rules fosters a sense of injustice. In some cases, the death penalty is applied. Inter-faction rivalries and violence have also caused people to leave.”
While the odds seem really up against the terrorists, deserting has equally remained dangerous.
“The third problem is that communities aren’t centrally involved in reintegration processes even though they facilitate disengagement and are the first point of contact for ex-Boko Haram associates,” the report stated
Which is why the report recommended better management of integration prgrammes
“The way in which ex-Boko Haram associates are received and screened must be predictable and based on standard reception-screening-profiling mechanisms,” it said.
“Regional standards and protocols along with enabling legislation should guide demobilisation in the four Lake Chad Basin countries.”
Share this on WhatsApp