Share this on WhatsApp
The president of the LoveWorld Incorporated aka Christ Embassy Pastor Chris Oyakhilome is now a grandfather as his first daughter Sharon aka CSO becomes a mom.
The renown Cleric yesterday on Thursday April 29, 2021, announced to the admiration of millions of users on his verified Super User Account on KingsChat – a thriving social media app – at 5:29pm GMT+1. The news has since gone viral across all Social Media Platforms.
 
He expressed his gratitude to God and the excitement of welcoming the newest addition to his family saying: “So thrilled with boundless joy to welcome my new baby grand daughter, Arielle Rachelle-Marise. We’re all full of praise to the Lord for His priceless gift and grace through Sharon & Phil, parents of the new born. Glory to God.”
Related Story: Over 5.3 Billion People Join Pastor Chris for First Global Day of Prayer in 2021
The whole ministry has been agog with excitement and celebrations since the announcement as many members and followers of The Man of God took to the various social media platforms to facilitate with the parents, and most importantly their president. Congratulatory messages were posted both on the Pastor’s KingsChat account and all other social media spaces with several hashtags by individuals and groups alike. A handle on Kingschat app, @sonsom posted:
“A BUNDLE OF JOY AND BEAUTY 
It is with grateful hearts and immense thanksgiving to God that we welcome the newest SOM members as we join our dear Sister Sharon and Brother Phillip Frimpong to celebrate the birth of their beautiful baby girl; Arielle Rachelle-Marise! 
The beauty of God in all resplendency! 
Congratulations Sister Sharon and Brother Phillip Frimpong! We celebrate you today and always
#WELCOMETOTHEFAMILY
#LOVEWORLD 
#SONSOFMINISTRY
#PREPARATION”
@tftdwpmo said:
“Wow! Wow!! Wow!!!
With a heart full of Thanksgiving, I join the whole of the ministry to congratulate our Father and Man of God on the arrival of our Precious Princess Arielle Rachelle-Marise; my dear, welcome to the Kingdom whose Builder and Maker is God. Congratulations Papa Sir.”
Arielle is the first child of Sharon and Philip Frimpong since the couple exchanged vows October 6th 2018 in Lagos Nigeria. Both were living in the United Kingdom before the knots and only came to Nigeria for their wedding after which they started out the new family in the UK.

We say congratulations to Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, his family, Sharon and Philip, and all Christ Embassy members.

Let us have your comments!

Share this on WhatsApp