Share this on WhatsApp






 


Jose Mourinho can be touted as one of the best managers in the football world today. He is serial winner with 25 senior trophies.
The Portuguese tactician who is renowned for his tactical prowess has successfully managed FC Porto, Inter Milan, Chelsea, Real Madrid and Manchester United.
Mourinho can pride himself a successful manager with domestic title in a record four different countries (Portugal, England, Italy and Spain) and especially as he is one of the only three managers to have won the UEFA Champions League with two different clubs namely, FC Porto (2004) and Inter Milan (2010).
The self-styled “Special One” is also a three-time Premier League Champion with Chelsea (2005, 2006, 2015).
Mourinho left Manchester United in December 2018, with the club lying in sixth place after 17 matches.
A return to management came in November 2019 when Mourinho was announced as Mauricio Pochettino’s successor at Spurs.
He guided the north London side to a sixth-placed finish in the 2019/20 campaign, before parting company with the club in seventh position after playing 32 matches in 2020/21.
Mourinho was hired as manager by Tottenham after parting ways with Manchester United in November, 2019 as a replacement for Mauricio Pochettino where he guided the North London to sixth-place finish in the 2019/2020 campaign.
Report reaching National Daily has just confirmed that Tottenham have parted ways with Mourinho amid their Premier League struggles where they are seated seventh on the log and just six days before the Carabao Cup Final, Tottenham Hotspur have parted company with manager Jose Mourinho.
Meanwhile, Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy has thanked Jose Mourinho the former Man United boss was released as manager at Spurs while admitting regrets that things failed to work as planned with the Portuguese at White Hart Lane.
Mourinho’s sack may not be unconnected with the present struggles at Tottenham where their Champions League qualification for next season is under serious threat as their hopes are looking slimmer considering their current position.
In a statement, Levy said: “Jose and his coaching staff have been with us through some of our most challenging times as a Club.
“Jose is a true professional who showed enormous resilience during the pandemic.
“On a personal level I have enjoyed working with him and regret that things have not worked out as we both had envisaged.
“He will always be welcome here and we should like to thank him and his coaching staff for their contribution.”
The question begging for an urgent answer now is what is next for Jose Mourinho.
 
 
 






Share this on WhatsApp