Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu
        Share this on WhatsApp





 


The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, at the commissioning of Nigeria Police Radio 99.1fm on Wednesday, reaffirmed the commitment of the Nigeria Police to partnership for community policing in Nigeria.
The IG remarked that the commissioning of the Nigeria Police Radio 99.1FM, reflected a legacy project conceived, nurtured, and actualized by the Nigeria Police Force.
IGP Adamu recalled that on assumption of office as the 20th indigenous Inspector-General of Police, the Force introduced some strategies to combat crimes and stabilize security across the country. “As part of the implementation processes, we appreciated the need to bolster partnership and good working relationships between the police and the people in our various communities.
“One of these strategies is the construction and set-up of this community-based radio station – the Nigeria Police 99.1FM Radio -which is targeted at bringing the police closer to the people,” the IG declared.
 
The IGP said he appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari for the Federal Government’s unrelenting commitment to the security and safety of the Nigerians and the support for the Nigeria Police in the enhancement of the Force operational capacity. “The Nigeria Police 99.1FM Radio is a product of this laudable gesture and it is within the vision of our Community Policing initiative which emphasizes smooth information flow towards strengthening the bond between the citizens and the Police,” the IG said.
Adamu disclosed that the Nigeria Police 99.1FM Radio has since commenced test transmission in line with the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) code and operational regulations. The radio station will serve as a veritable avenue for the Nigeria Police to engage, enlighten and inform the public on policing activities and other security-related matters, he added. The IG highlighted that the Pro Life radio  will air phone-in programs to involve the citizens in the security of their localities, especially, on ways to spot and report crimes and other necessary steps to take in the event of a crime or security emergency. “From this moment, there will be interaction and people-oriented programs which would help strengthen police-citizens relations and will serve as a trusted point for resolution of complaints by citizens,” he said.
The IG expressed sincere gratitude to the National Broadcasting Commission for joining forces with the police in actualizing this vision by granting the NPF radio Operational Licence and Frequency to transmit as a Community Radio. He also expressed appreciation to the leadership of the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) and other private/government radio broadcast service providers for providing mentorship to the staff officers of the Radio station which ensured hitch-free take off of operations.
The IG assured Nigerians that the Nigeria Police Radio will pave the way for continuous proactive policing in the country and will further strengthen the bond between the police and the people-. He reiterated the commitment of the police to the fight against crimes, protect life and property, preserve law, and order and uphold fundamental human rights as enshrined in the Constitution.





Share this on WhatsApp