Share this on WhatsApp

 


The Lagos State Government yesterday alerted residents along flood plains of major rivers and drainage channels such as Owode, Iwaya, Makoko, Badia, Ijora, Isaalu, Pota and Shibiri to move to higher grounds when the need arises.
The Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello, briefing reporters on “the seasonal climate predictions and socio-economic implications for Lagos State”, said the state is also monitoring the low-lying communities of Agiliti, Agboyi,  Itowolo and Ajegunle, with the likelihood of Ogun River flooding the areas as well as other river basins.
He said the peculiarity of Lagos as a coastal state and its strategic position as the economic hub of the nation necessitated the need to disseminate crucial information on this year’s rainfall prediction, to provide climate information and prepare residents ahead of the likely consequences of the rains, which will be between 238 and 261 days.
Bello said the maximum annual rainfall for this year is predicted to be 1,747mm.
He said the state government would ensure a flood-free and hygienic environment during the rainy season.
The commissioner said the government is collaborating with the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET) not only in the areas of annual seasonal climate prediction, but also in downscaling the predictions to stakeholders.
He added that the state had concluded preparation to have its network of weather stations to monitor the climate as well as increase the preparedness for weather related issues.
Bello said the seasonal climate prediction for the state indicated onset dates that ranged between March 17 in earliest and April 6, while the season ending is predicted to be between November 30 and December 5. He said Ikeja is expected to experience about 261 days of rainfall, with a total amount of 1392mm and the rainfall onset date of March 17, while the cessation date is expected to be December 3.
“Lagos Island has a rainfall onset date of April 6, while its cessation date is expected to be November 30. It is also expected that Lagos Island will have about 238 days of rainfall and about 1627mm of rainfall this year.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp