Share this on WhatsApp
Mr Igbekeke Akinrinwa, Chairman, Okitipupa Local Government in Ondo State, on Thursday presented a N3.2 billion  2021 budget proposal to the council’s legislature.
Presenting the budget, tagged “Budget of Hope”, Akinrinwa expressed optimism that the budget was expected to take care of the financial exigencies of the council, ranging from overhead cost to capital expenditure, social welfare and charity.
According to him, the items in the budget are people oriented that will bring succour to the people in the council area.
“This budget is  expected to bring succour to the people of this council through capital expenditure, social welfare and others,” Akinrinwa said.
The chairman thanked the leadership of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees, Ondo State Chapter, for their prompt intervention in the ongoing renovation of the council secretariat that was destroyed  by hoodlums during the  #EndSARS protest in 2020.
He also commended Mr Larry Ogunmusire, a former Okitipupa LGA Chairman, who provided his house for use as temporary council secretariat, and retired Gen. Olu Bajowa, who donated N5 million towards the renovation of the council secretariat.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls  that Okitipupa council secretariat, police station, Oil Palm Company, Magistrates’ and High Courts, were among property set ablaze by hoodlums who hijacked the October 2020 peaceful #EndSARS  protest against alleged police brutality.
In his response, Mr Monday Akinselure, Leader of Okitipupa Legislative Council, assured that the budget proposal would receive prompt attention and speedy passage by the councilors.
He called on the chairman to provide the Legislative Council Leader with official cars, electrical gadgets, office furniture and total renovation of the Legislative Chamber.
NAN reports that the budget presentation was attended by Mr Ola Iwaeni, Vice Chairman of the council, Mr Johnson Ikuejamuwa, the Council Secretary and Mr Bode Ikulala, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman in Okitipupa, among others.

Share this on WhatsApp