Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The increasing insecurity and new crime trend of target on prisons, has precipitated red alert in Lagos where the famous Kirikiri Maximum and Medium Prisons and others are located. Initiating new plans to protect the prisons and being proactive in the state, the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, held a consultative meeting with the Controller of Correctional Service Lagos State, Francis Adebisi, and top officers including Area Commanders, Mobile Police Commanders and Commanders of the Tactical Operational Units of the command in the state on Wednesday.
The Police Public Relations Officer in Lagos State, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Wednesday, indicated that CP Odumosu at the meeting ordered the top security officers to be on red alert. The CP emphasized the need to review operational strategies of the command towards forestalling any attacks in the state.
Other operatives at the meeting were identified to include the Deputy Commissioners of Police, Operations, Administration and State CID, Panti respectively, the 14 Area Commanders, Police Mobile Force Commanders,  Commanders of Rapid Response Squad and Task force, Commanders of the Special Squad and Strike Team and the State Intelligence Bureau of the command.
The PPRO indicated that CP Odumosu held wide interaction with the officers to evaluate and brainstorm on having better security architecture in the state, including forestalling attacks on police formations, correctional centres and vulnerable places in the state.
According to the statement: “The meeting agreed on many strategies to be adopted including robust intelligence gathering, surveillance, sectorising the state for easy policing, constant patrol and deployment of personnel to strategic places and multi-agency collaboration amongst others.
“The police boss gave clear directives to the full implementation and enforcement of the strategies adopted to achieve the goals of effective security of the state generally.”
In the meeting of the Commissioner of Police and the Controller of Correctional Service in Lagos State, Francis Adebisi, in Ikeja, the CP, assured the Controller that the State Police Command will continue to deploy police mobile men to the Correctional Centres in the state to protect and secure the major Correctional Centres in Lagos State.
The Controller of Correctional Service, Francis Adebisi, had commended the efforts of the Commissioner of Police on providing adequate security for all and sundry and promoting sustainable synergy amongst security agencies in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp