Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Experts have warned the federal government to stop administering the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine on Nigerians, describing manufacturers as being deceptive about the side effects of the drug.
A renowned neuroscientist and former principal investigator of NASA, USA, Dr. Philip Njemanze, said from all indications, the drugs are experimental vaccine and, since there is a proven case of the vaccine causing blood clot in some persons, it does not matter where it has occurred, whether in Ireland, Denmark, it should be suspended.
Njemanze, who is the chairman of International Institutes of Advanced Research and Training, Chidicon Medical Centre, Owerri, Imo State, wondered why enormous attention is given to COVID-19 when other diseases such as malaria are killing many Nigerians.
Njemanze said: “COVID-19 should not be a national priority when we have just about 168,000 cases and few fatalities when there are diseases such as malaria killing thousands of Nigerians.”
Similarly, a public affairs analyst, Comrade Cyril Okemuo, said: “The so-called COVI-19 vaccine is not a vaccine after all.  It is a dangerous experimental gene therapy, according to experts.
“If you are immune to a disease, you can be exposed to it without becoming infected. The COVID-19 vaccine does not provide any person who received the vaccine with immunity to the pandemic nor does it prevent the spread of the disease. It does not even meet the US CDC’s definition of a vaccine.
“So, it is deceptive for pharmaceutical companies that are producing these experimental gene therapy to claim that it’s a vaccine. These drug makers are lying and, by calling the therapy a ‘vaccine’, they are only attempting to protect themselves from health liability arising therefrom.  This is because vaccine injuries or death are exempted by law from any product liability lawsuits.
According to him, mainstream media, government health bureaucrats and politicians, unfortunately, have bought into the deception to stampede their citizens into forced vaccinations.
“The pharmaceutical companies are going to reap enormous profits without any risk, while downplaying the health risk posed by the experimental gene therapy called ‘vaccine’.
“Researchers are concerned that it’s going to provoke autoimmune reactions, setting one up for a lifetime of serious health complications. It is also being feared that the experimental gene therapy can make future infections even worse. This means that individuals who get this so-called experimental gene therapy are the guinea pigs.
“It is on record that we were told that there was no specific, effective treatment or cure for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Accordingly, the basis of management of COVID-19 is supportive care, which includes treatment to relieve symptoms, fluid therapy, oxygen support and prone positioning as needed, and medications or devices to support other affected vital organs.”
Okemuo argued that there was more to it than meets the eye.
Share this on WhatsApp