His Excellency, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, CON, cutting the tape to declare open the AFP showroom, flanked byAFP GM OLiver Cohneh and Julius Berger regional manager engr. Juergen Fischer in Port Harcourt recently.
        Share this on WhatsApp
 


Abuja Furniture Production, AFP, the exotic furnishing and interior design and implementation unit of Nigeria’s leading engineering construction company, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, has opened its latest Showroom in the beautiful Garden city of Port Harcourt.
The high-end AFP Port Harcourt Showroom has been carefully planned over the past two years and was finally commissioned in a 3-day exhibition of top class furnishing taste, elegance, functionality and style.
Rivers State Governor, His Excellency Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, CON, was on hand to personally cut the ribbon to formally declare the AFP Port Harcourt Showroom open to clients.
Wike said his administration has created a conducive investment climate in the State, and will continue to partner investors such the AFP who are taking advantage of the available opportunities.
The governor said he had earlier approached the management of AFP in Abuja and encouraged them to come over to Port Harcourt to serve the South-South and South East geopolitical zones. AFP, the Governor said, has honoured their promise to eventually open a showroom in the Rivers State capital.
Wike encouraged the AFP to diligently do their business, assuring the AFP management that he is convinced that they will be successful in Rivers State. Looking admiringly at the beautiful and elegantly laid out furniture on display at the showroom, Governor Wike said: “With the kind of work you have done here, and with the market, there was a need for you to bring a Showroom to Port Harcourt which will serve South-South and South-East Zone”.
Speaking further, and to further incentivize the AFP employment-generating presence and work in Rivers State, Governor Wike said the State Government will award the furnishing of the State House of Assembly Quarters that is currently under construction to AFP.
“We know that you will employ our people and that will reduce the level of unemployment in our State. The people will make money and feed their families”, said Wike
In his remarks at the ceremony, the South south/South east Regional Manager of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Engr. Juergen Fischer, said the Abuja Furniture Production (AFP) has come to Rivers State to stay as a business entity.
Fischer thanked the Governor for having created a conducive investment climate in the State. Fischer also said the Julius Berger-AFP is encouraged by the milestone of development witnessed in Rivers State.
The General Manager of the AFP, Oliver Cohneh, in his welcoming remarks thanked the Governor for very graciously finding the time out of his clearly busy schedule to be present in person to open the AFP Port Harcourt Showroom.
The Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Chief Sergeant Awuse and a host of other very important personalities as well as corporate and business executives and dignitaries and the Governor’s son accompanied him to the ceremony.
Share this on WhatsApp