Share this on WhatsApp
 


Former President Donald Trump has warned of grave dangers of the Supreme Court in the US under the Biden Administration and the Radical Left Democrats.
The former US President in a statement alleged that the US Supreme Court is being packed with Radical Left Democrats to scuttle the Presidential Election suit. He added that the Supreme Court would not have the courage for transparent judegment which is what they should do on the election suit.
Trump raised alarm that the Republican has 19 states have approached the court but are not allowed to be heard. He decried that those appointed into the Supreme Court are watching what is being done in the lower courts. He expressed the fear that the court will not deliver judgement based on facts but apply technical issues in delivering judgement.
Trump, accordingly, declared:  “Wouldn’t it be ironic if the Supreme Court of the United States, after showing that they didn’t have the courage to do what they should have done on the Great Presidential Election Fraud of 2020, was PACKED by the same people, the Radical Left Democrats (who they are so afraid of!), that they so pathetically defended in not hearing the Election Fraud case.
“Now there is a very good chance they will be diluted (and moved throughout the court system so that they can see how the lower courts work), with many new Justices added to the Court, far more than has been reported.”
The former US president maintained: “There is also a good chance that they will be term-limited.
“We had 19 states go before the Supreme Court who were, shockingly, not allowed to be heard.
“Believe it or not, the President of the United States was not allowed to be heard based on ‘no standing,’ not based on the FACTS.
“The Court wouldn’t rule on the merits of the great Election Fraud, including the fact that local politicians and judges, not State Legislatures, made major changes to the Election—which is in total violation of the United States Constitution.”
Former President added: “Our politically correct Supreme Court will get what they deserve—an unconstitutionally elected group of Radical Left Democrats who are destroying our Country.
“With leaders like Mitch McConnell, they are helpless to fight.
“He didn’t fight for the Presidency, and he won’t fight for the Court. If and when this happens, I hope the Justices remember the day they didn’t have courage to do what they should have done for America.”
Share this on WhatsApp