Share this on WhatsApp

The wife of the national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, representing Lagos Central in the National Assembly, Senator Remi Tinubu, on Tuesday appeared to incur the wrath of Nigerians who scolded her for playing politics with the rising insecurity, the frequent killing and kidnapping of citizens in the country, after her vociferous attack on a fellow party member, Senator Smart Adeyemi, representing Kogi West, over his lamentation of the security challenges in Nigeria and the failure of the government to tackle the crisis.
Several Nigerians berated Senator Tinubu for exploiting the deteriorating insecurity crisis in the country to beguile President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC government into believing that anybody raising a voice on the intractable insecurity lacks loyalty to the president and party government. This, the Lagos Senator was perceived to demonstrate when she interrupted and abused Senator Adeyemi who raised a voice over the crisis, seeking ways the country could get out of it.
Several Nigerians chided the Lagos senator for disguised loyalty, assuming that not talking about the insecurity crisis implies loyalty to the president or talking about the insecurity crisis translates to working against the president and the ruling APC government.
Senator Remi Tinubu had at the senate plenary on Tuesday interrupted Senator Adeyemi, attempted to make the Kogi senator look like an enemy of the APC government and the president when he raised a voice against the intractable insecurity in Nigeria.
Adeyemi had on Tuesday remarked that the country is experiencing the worst instability, which he said is worse than the civil war.
“This is the worst instability we are facing. In fact, this is worse than the civil war,” Senator Adeyemi had said.
Suddenly, Senator Remi Tinubu, interrupted questioning Adeyemi if he is in the PDP.
The Lagos Senator has furiously interrupted: “Are you in PDP? Are you a wolf in sheep’s clothing?”
Adeyemi resisted the temptation to be distracted. He held back his response and focused on his deliberation in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly.
Adeyemi had declared: “We cannot pretend that we are capable of handling the situation in our hands. America, as powerful as they are, when the pandemic came, it came to a point China came to their rescue.
“We shouldn’t pretend that we need foreign support now. Billions of naira have been voted for security services and nothing is coming out of it. I’m a party man and I’m supporting APC but it has gotten to a point that as supporters, we cannot keep quiet.”
Nigerians on the social media expressed diverse opinion, some linking Remi Tinubu’s attack on Adeyemi as part of the preparations for the 2023 elections
Share this on WhatsApp