Share this on WhatsApp
Ecobank Nigeria Limited has concluded plans to host a digital conference as part of its commemoration of this year’s Workers’ Day.
According to Korede Demola-Adeniyi; Head, Consumer Banking, the webinar which is scheduled for the 29th of April titled “Inflation and Your Money – Our role As Your Bank” is targeted at educating members of the public on how to manage limited resources at their disposal.
She said the digital conference would also provide tips on savings, borrowing, investments and how Ecobank can be useful to the participants and general public amidst the rising inflation.
“Inflation rate has continued its upward trend to settle at about 18.1% in March with prices of goods rising significantly in the last six months. This, in turn has significantly reduced the disposable income and cash available to consumers.”
“Consequently, as a bank set up to contribute to economic development, we thought it important to facilitate a discussion during this period of Worker’s Day, that will provide some guidance to our customers and the general public on how they can manage their cash and resources through rising inflation.”
She disclosed that the webinar which will be hosted on the Microsoft Teams’ platform will converge important stakeholders who will discuss the realities of the economy of the country and also proffer solutions on how to stay afloat financially and better manage resources.
Some of the speakers include Jimi Ogbobine, FCA – Head, Agusto Consulting Ltd; Fela Popoola, Managing Director, EDC Nigeria Limited and Daberechi Effiong, Head, Consumer Products, Ecobank Nigeria, amongst others.
While imploring members of the public to join the webinar, Mrs. Demola-Adeniyi maintained that “The webinar is bound to provide financial education and financial planning tips to our customers and every other participant. Participants will be informed about relevant investment opportunities to create wealth and most importantly, how the bank can be useful to them at this time. It is important to make an informed decision regarding how to manage your money”.

Share this on WhatsApp