Share this on WhatsApp






Prof. Olugbenga Mokuolu, Technical Director, National Malaria Elimination Programme (NMEP), has warned that over focus on COVID-19 may jeopardise efforts to control malaria burden in the country.
Mokuolu gave the warning on Monday at the 4th Olugbenga Mokuolu Medical Students’ Association Malaria Lecture held at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH).
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the lecture was titled, “Malaria Elimination in the context of COVID-19 Pandemic: Lessons and Prospects’’.
Mokuolu, a lecturer in the Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, noted that over focus on COVID-19 pandemic could lead to reversal of the gains already made in malaria control.
“Learning from this experience, there is the need to strengthen a resilient and sustainable system of health.
“The future of malaria elimination will depend on the commitment through strong political will, strategic use of information and diligent implementation of proven strategies.’’
The don stressed the need to optimise synergies between COVID-19 and Malaria such as in Universal Testing of Fever Cases with combined Malaria and COVID-19 Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDTs).
He, however, commended the NMEP for its continuity plan during the COVID-19 pandemic that featured risk assessment, virtual meetings, state-by-state situation analysis, partners’ meetings to harmonise actions, communication strategies, and adjustments in programme implementation.
According to him, NMEP has made progress in spite of the threats by COVID-19.
He said that the malaria score sheet showed that NMEP had put a lot of creative response to the threat.
Mokuolu recommended synergy in access to basic Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to inspire confidence of the public in health facilities and capacity development on fever management.
He also stressed the need to present evidence of the decline of malaria infection to motivate major donors, whom he said would want to be sure that their funding had helped to control the diseases.
The don advised that the private sector’s response should be strengthened in the areas of engagement of the multi-stakeholders, access to genuine and affordable commodities and quality care.
NAN reports that the annual lecture was one of the activities lined up to mark the World Malaria Day observed from April 25.













Share this on WhatsApp