Share this on WhatsApp






Prof. Benjamin Adewuyi, Department of Metallurgical Engineering, Federal University of Technology Akure has advised the Federal Government to resuscitate Ajaokuta steel company as it will serve as a catalyst for economic growth.
Adewuyi gave the advice in an interview on Monday in Abuja.
According to him, Ajaokuta steel is a national asset that adequate attention should be given to ensure it is revived to contribute to the economy of Nigeria.
He said that no country could record economic growth without a viable metallurgical sector put in place, adding that Nigeria should revive its moribund metal sector.
He said that the silence on Ajaokuta steel had become worrisome as nothing had been heard about the Russian team expected to arrive in Nigeria and take audit of the company.
He said that the conspiracy of silence on the company “is back on course”, adding that the company had always suffered setbacks.
“The conspiracy of silence of the company is back on course, our economy cannot grow if we don’t have a base for production of steel, we will continue to grow the economy where we buy steel.
“The company is stagnant; we spoke with the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Mr Olamilekan Adegbite, a few weeks ago and he said that the Russia team that will take audit of the company will soon arrive in Nigeria,” he said.
NAN recalls that the accord to revive Ajaokuta steel company was reached during a meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and President Vladimir Putin in Russia in 2019.
The Russian government had nominated TYAZHPROMEXPORT (TPE), a Russian company, the original builder of Ajaokuta steel to conduct a technical audit of the steel company to ascertain the level of work to be completed.
On Delta Steel in Aladja, he said that it would take political will to correct the mistake made on the company at its initial concession to an Indian company.
He said that nothing had changed about Delta steel since the administration of late Umar Yar’adua retrieved Delta steel from the Indian company called  Global Infrastructure (Nigeria) Ltd. and later sold to another company by this current administration
“The original concept of the company is not what it is being used for as the company is meant to produce liquid, specialised steel quality that could be used in automobiles not to roll billets.
“Whatever production that is going on in the company right now is not the original concept designed for it to be produced.
“How are we even sure that steel production is even going on there.
“The last time we visited the place as an association, the area was desolate and we were prevented from entering the compound; if it is working everyone will know that it is working.
















Share this on WhatsApp