Share this on WhatsApp
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday blasted one Kassim Afegbua over spurious and irresponsible allegation, and false claim that he petitioned the EFCC and ICPC, asking that the leadership of the party account for an alleged N10 billion.
Afegbua had claimed  that the alleged N10 billion was realized from the sale of “forms in 2019”.
The PDP in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, indicated that the party, the leaders and members are aware that there is no truth in the allegation, challenging Afegbua to provide proof.
The party, however, indicated that for the benefit of the public and PDP teeming supporters, it is obliged to explain that the PDP did not raise Afegbua’s fictitious sum of N10 billion. The party stated that such imaginary figure only exists in the psyche of Afegbua and his fantasy of mischief.
The National Publicity Secretary said that for the avoidance of doubt, the PDP generated the sum of N4.6 billion and raised a budget for its expenditure, in line with all known financial regulations of the party.
“This budget passed through the organs of our party and received the approvals from the NWC, the Governors’ Forum, the Board of Trustees as well as other organs of the party.
“As a law-abiding political party that respects the doctrine of rule of law and transparency, the budget was presented to the National Executive Committee (NEC) where it also received a final approval,” Ologbondiyan declared.
The PDP National Publicity Secretary maintained that all the sums received and budgeted for passed through the due process of approval by the necessary organs of the party.
Ologbondiyan also declared that the PDP has no account under the name or guise of Afegbua’s ghostly Morufu Nigeria Limited.
“As a political party, under whose administration the EFCC and the ICPC were formulated and established, our party strictly adheres to best practices of transparency, accountability and probity in all issues including our financial administration.
“In addition, our party has since submitted the audited account of its financial expenditures to the INEC for 2019, in line with statutory requirements of the law.
“The PDP will not in any way be distracted by an inconsequential blackmailer hired to mudsling our party and its leadership, in order to divert attention from the salient issues of insecurity and drooping economy trailing the failures of the APC administration to provide good governance, Ologbondiyan highlighted.
The PDP National Publicity Secretary emphasized: “for the benefit of unsuspecting members of the public, the activities of a certain Afegbua have always been suspect and we urge Nigerians to be wary of such characters and their backers.”
Share this on WhatsApp