Share this on WhatsApp
Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has opened up on the alleged hidden agenda President Muhammadu Buhari had for Nigeria with his kinsmen, the Fulani tribe.
While reacting to the recent alleged killings of some villagers in Benue state on Tuesday by Fulani herdsmen, Ortom accused President Buhari of working for the Fulani tribe to take over Nigeria.
“What is happening now, to me, is very clear; Mr. President is just working for these Fulanis to take over the whole country. His body language is what is being played out,” the governor alleged while condemning the activities of herdsmen in the state.
He added, “The body language, the action and inaction of Mr President shows that he is only the President of Fulani people; I have known this.
“We are becoming a banana republic, if we have a president who gives the security agencies orders to shoot at sight, whosoever is having an AK-47 and the Minister of Defence came out to say that they cannot shoot at sight… So who is the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces?”
Governor Ortom insisted that the activities of herdsmen in the country must be condemned while the people should come together to hold the President to account.
He decried that no fewer than 70 people have been killed in the last two weeks in three local governments of the state.
This, he noted, was in addition to the recent attacks that left six people dead, while one of the several injured victims later died in the hospital.
According to the governor, the people of Benue are being overstretched and running out of patience due to the incessant attacks on their communities.
“Mr President must rise up, he is the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and over the 250 nationalities that are in this country; Mr. President is their President, we all voted for him.
“He has taken oath of office to secure the country and provide security for lives and property; this is unacceptable, this cannot continue,” the visibly worried governor said.
He added, “Mr. President must rise up to address the nation himself, not Garba Shehu or any of his assistance. Mr President must tell us where we are going in this country, this is too much.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp