Share this on WhatsApp
 


Temidayo Ogunsemilore, an 18-year-old boxer, on Monday lamented her being walked over in her 64kg featherweight bout after claims of her participation in professional boxing.
Ogunsemilore of Kaduna State was scheduled to fight against Comfort Ajayi of Ondo State on Sunday at the 20th National Sports Festival (NSF) in Benin.
But she failed to show up after calls were made by the officials, and Ajayi was awarded the semi-final bout.
Ogunsemilore, who was seated among spectators during the announcement, later told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the organisers had faulted her participation in the festival.
She said the organisers claimed she was a professional boxer because she usually featured in the GOtv Boxing Night event.
“But I am not a professional. The Boxing Night appearance the officials were referring to was only an exhibition bout. It was just for entertainment and not a real fight.
“I think it is because the event is usually viewed across the world and that is why they are calling me professional. I feel so sad that I am in Benin and cannot participate.
“However, I believe that they are scared of me, because they know that I will beat the other opponents. That’s is why they are putting me out of this competition,” she said.
The coach of the 18-year-old, Tajudeen Kazeem, felt that Ogunsemilore who registered for the competition should have been given an opportunity to participate.
“She registered for the competition and was placed in the quarter-finals.
“This is because they are very few in this category. She moved to the semi-finals on bye. There was no opponent for her to fight with and I think it is because they are all afraid of her.
“All the coaches here know what she is capable of, either in lightweight or lightweather.
“But the mistake I made was allowing her participate in GOTv Boxing Night.
“She fought once in the GOtv event and since the organisation was impressed with her fight, they always call her for the exhibition match just to encourage other girls into boxing,” he said.
One of the boxing officials at the NSF, who sought for anonymity, insisted that Ogunsemilore was a professional boxer while the NSF was for amateur boxing.

Share this on WhatsApp