Share this on WhatsApp





The All Progressives Congress (APC), South Africa Chapter, has advised the Federal Government to work deeper with Nigerians in Diaspora in the fight against terrorism and other security challenges in the country.

The Chairman of the chapter, Bola Babarinde, gave the advice in a statement issued on Sunday.

He said that the group and other people of goodwill in the diaspora were ready to support the government in the fight to eradicate all forms of insecurity in Nigeria.

According to Babarinde, the diaspora groups are ready to contribute their quota toward ensuring the positive development of the nation.

He said that the group and others in the diaspora would support the government with the provision of modern technical gadgets and training of security agents on intelligent gathering.

“The inability of our security forces to curtail terrorism is not unconnected with the fact that some of these terror groups are enjoying sponsorship by powerful individuals and organisations that are bent on seeing this administration fails.

“We are ready to support the government by provision of modern tech gadgets and training of security agents on intelligent gathering.

“Technology will help to fish out compromised men and officers within the security outfits. Modern Communication gadgets also will help, all these we have access to; and manpower as well,” he said.

Babarinde urged Dr Isa Patami, Minister of Communication and Digital Education, to do more in the area of Digital Education which we believe can empower the youths of Nigeria.

He said that the minister should facilitate interventions and innovation into the ministry to harness the enormous potentials within the sector.

“Also, the Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC) could do more. Many anomalies persist in the telecoms sector.

“There is poor voice quality being carried by third-tier carriers, while the customers are charged the prices for premium service which they have never enjoyed.

“We contacted the NCC with some facts and we also advised the commission to sanction major service providers in mobile communication for errant practices, such as using bulk SMS to send normal text messages for individuals,” he said.






Share this on WhatsApp