Share this on WhatsApp
The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) says it would train 192 youth and women on agriculture and various vocational skills in Kaduna state.
Alhaji Sani Maiwada, the state coordinator who made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) said, the training would empower youth and make them self-reliant.
“The NDE in Kaduna state has started its skill acquisition training programmes from its three departments.
“The Sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme (SADTS) under which we are going to train 100 participants, women and youth for three months.
“Knowing fully that agriculture is the major employer of labour, we are going to train them on different aspects of farming and livestock particularly cow fattening”, he said.
Maiwada stated that the training would commence on April 27 and the directorate would provide the two cows which would be used for practical and also teach participants how to prepare animal feed.
He said that recruitment of participants had been completed and the trainees’ information was captured in the database.
He explained that the SADTS training would last for three months with two weeks spent on learning theory and the other two months and two weeks on practical.
The state coordinator said that the Vocational Skill Development Department would train 46 participants under its Advanced -National Open Apprenticeship Scheme (A-NOAS).
He however noted that the participants for the A-NOAS would be drawn from the graduated participants of the Basic-National Open Apprenticeship Scheme (B-NOAS) who had undergone training on carpentry, welding and metal fabrication, catering, tailoring among others.
He explained that the training would commence on April 28 with two participants picked from each of the 23 local government areas of the state and would be posted to corporate trainers to learn advanced training in their field.
“We have the special public work department; we are going to select two people per LGA making a total of 46 participants to be trained on the Environmental Beautification Training Scheme (EBTS).
“This EBTS involves beautification of roundabout and streets, we would also train them on hard and soft landscaping such as interlocking tiles and Plaster of Paris (POP)”, he said.
He stated that all trainings was free and participants would be given N2,000 monthly stipends for three months to cushion their transport adding that the NDE would try as much as possible to post participants close to their residence.
Share this on WhatsApp