Participants at the GOTNI's Leadership Masterclass programme.
        Share this on WhatsApp





Top directors in the Ministry of Women Affairs has concluded a 2-day Leadership Masterclass training programme at the GOTNI Leadership Centre, Africa’s Most Prestigious Leadership Centre.

The two-day training which was part of the Ministry’s commitment towards the learning and continuous capacity improvement of the staff of the ministry equipped participants with the capacity to lead from a global eye view, optimize team performance and avoid the pitfalls that cause many leaders to fail.

The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mrs Anthonia Ekpa who spoke during the training session emphasized the ministry’s commitment towards the capacity development and overall productivity of all staff of the ministry.

The President of the GOTNI Leadership Center, Dr Linus Okorie who taught some of the sessions at the training said that forward-thinking organizations make the needed investment to optimize their workforce.

Other seasoned facilitators with years of experience in the art and practice of leadership who facilitated at the training include Architect Nya Etuk and Ms. Ini Mfon.Speaking at the end of the training, the Director of Human Resource of the Ministry commended the GOTNI Leadership Centre for the excellent learning ambience and top-notch training programme put together by the centre.

The Ministry of Women Affairs is the ministry with the mandate to advise government on gender and Children issues and issues affecting Persons with Disabilities and the Aged; initiate policy guidelines and lead the process of gender equality and mainstreaming at both the national and international levels.

GOTNI Leadership Centre (GLC) is Nigeria’s foremost leadership development hub that offers comprehensive leadership education designed to meet the challenges of the 21st century leadership environment. The centre through its widely experienced and globally reputed faculty is redefining Africa’s approach to leadership and raising transformed leaders creating value globally.

At the end of the training, the directors thanked the Minister, Senator Pauline Tallen for making leadership development and capacity building a priority for the ministry, especially in times like this.








Share this on WhatsApp