Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Federal Government has directed the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to suspend the implementation of the duly performed minor review from N2 per kWh to N4 per kWh till the conclusion of the Joint Ad Hoc Committee’s work at the end of January 2021.
The Minister of Power, Engr Sale Mamman disclosed this on Thursday via his official Twitter handle.
According to Sale Mamman, the development will give room for the outcome of all resolutions from the Committee to be implemented together.
He tweeted, “To promote a constructive conclusion of the dialogue with the Labour Centers (through the Joint Ad-Hoc Committee), I have directed NERC to forestall the implementation of the duly performed minor review (which adjusted tariffs between N2 per kWh and N4 per kWh) until the conclusion of the Joint Ad Hoc Committee’s work at the end of January 2021.
“Contrary to the allegation that tariff has been increased by 50 per cent, @NigeriaGov continues to fully subsidise 55 per cent of on-grid consumers in bands D and E and maintain the life line tariff for the poor and underprivileged.
“Partial subsidies were also applied for bands A, B and C in October 2020. These measures are all aimed at cushioning the effects of the pandemic while providing more targeted interventions for citizens.
“The public is aware that FGN and the Labour Centers have been engaged in positive discussions about the electricity sector through a joint ad-hoc Committee led by the Minister of State for Labour and Productivity and Co-Chaired by the Minister of State for Power. Great progress has been made in these deliberations which are set to be concluded at the end of January, 2021.”
Recall that NERC had on Tuesday issued a public notice explaining the tariff increase.
The agency said the tariff high is on average 75% from pre-September (MYTO 2020) levels before the initial September 1 tariff order and revised October tariff order based on the agreement with Labour.
From the release of this order, customers were meant to pay higher electricity tariffs in the region of N2 to N4 per kilowatt-hour. However, this increase has now been suspended following the tweet from the Minister of Power.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp