Share this on WhatsApp
 


Some governors, former governors and powerful politicians in the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are already realigning to form a new political party ahead of the 2023 general elections.
Some other political sources said the group plotting the birth of a new party comprises former governors, former House of Representatives Speakers, serving and former National Assembly members as well as a number of other prominent politicians from the two leading parties.
One of the promoters of the new group, whose primary objective is to break the alleged monopoly being enjoyed by the APC and PDP, said in Lagos, yesterday, that a former governor from the Southeast, a former senator who also governed a state in the Northwest, two former Speakers of the House of representatives from the north as well as two current principal officers of the National Assembly, are among the prime movers of the ongoing move for a new platform ahead of 2023.
Sources said the ex-governors are already holding consultations on forming a hybrid mega party from the two leading parties, and also reaching out to some serving governors to secure their buy-in for the planned party.
While the APC governors, a few ministers and some stakeholders have succeeded in the first stage of their plot by putting in place the Buni Caretaker Committee, the PDP governors are said to be watching their steps.
A top source, who spoke in confidence, said: “From the look of things, APC governors are calling the shots and they are pushing ongoing reforms to take control of the party.
“In fact, some governors, who were initially suspicious of the reforms in the party have seen the handwriting on the walls and have started retracing their steps to join forces with those who sacked Comrade Adams Oshiomhole led NWC.
Another source said: “I think what is playing out is that the governors’ bloc in APC is trying to be stronger and more powerful than the party. It is a replica of what was obtained when PDP was in power.
Other sources said some of the “founding fathers of APC and critical stakeholders are” watching development in the party with an eagle eye.”
It was learnt that a similar scenario is playing out in PDP.
A few PDP governors are suspicious of the reforms in the party being pushed by Governors Nyesom Wike, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal and a few others.
Part of the reforms is to sack the National Working Committee (NWC) led by Prince Uche Secondus.
It was gathered that the jostle for the presidential ticket of PDP is making some governors to ask for the “reorganisation” of the party.
It was learnt that some influential ex-governors, past political office holders and founding fathers of PDP have vowed to checkmate Wike and others.
A member of the National Caucus of the party said: “I think our major challenge in PDP is the desperation of some governors to hijack the party. Some of these governors were nowhere in 1998 when the party was formed.
Although ex-Governor Rochas Okorocha dropped hints of a new party at a function in Port Harcourt, it was learnt he only let out ongoing consultations by some governors, ex-governors and political leaders.

Share this on WhatsApp