Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Hundreds of people from Anaku Community in Anambra state took to the streets on Tuesday to protest the kidnapping of former Anambra Commissioner for Trade and Commerce Dr. Christian Madubuko.
Madubuko was kidnapped a few days after he resigned from the administration of Governor Willie Obiano.
His kinsmen said they had to take to the streets because the signals they were receiving from security operatives were not encouraging.
They displayed placards reading: “Anaku people plead for the rescue of their son”; “We are pleading for his release”; “Is Anambra still the safest state?” among others.
Addressing reporters at Anaku, his elder brother, Mr. Richard Madubuko, said his brother had been missing for the past 13 days
According to him: “For 13 days, our brother has been missing. Initially, we thought he would resurface after a day or two, but it has come to a stage we are confused.
“We have written to the Commissioner of Police without any response and we decided to let the world know what we are passing through.
“We want security agencies to help us locate him wherever he is. The police told us they do not know his whereabouts and we are begging them to assist us in finding him.
“Our people have decided to continue protesting until we are told the whereabouts of our brother. We spoke with him last on 12th January and since then, we do not know if he is kidnapped or not.
Another relation, Mr. Benjamin Ginika, recalled he was last seen after his visit to All progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) office in Awka.
He said: “While we are not suspecting anybody, we are pleading with Governor Willie Obiano to assist us to ensure that our brother is released unharmed. He has been missing for 13 days now and our community is in disarray.
“We have reported to the governor, the police and the state House of Assembly over this sudden disappearance of our brother, but nothing positive has come from it.
Anambra Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Mr. Haruna Mohammed, said the Command was investigating the sudden disappearance of the former Commissioner.
Haruna said: “the case was reported on the 16/1/2021 at the Central Police Station, Awka and the Commissioner of Police has directed the anti – kidnapping unit to investigate the circumstances surrounding the incident.
Share this on WhatsApp