BURNLEY, ENGLAND - OCTOBER 26: Chelsea manager Frank Lampard during the Premier League match between Burnley FC and Chelsea FC at Turf Moor on October 26, 2019 in Burnley, United Kingdom. (Photo by Kevin Barnes - CameraSport via Getty Images)
        Share this on WhatsApp




What memo did I miss?

Why are we acting like something terrible has happened?

Oh…the money.

So because of the lot spent acquiring players we expect result?

I thought you guys all had that nasty illusion that once a manager spends so much building a squad that he doesn’t need any more brilliance to win.

Isn’t that why you lot termed Pep as a Fraud?

Hypocrisy!

Other than that what has the poor Lampard done?

He’s basically played the players that was purchased for him.

His only gamble is to not know how to relegate players to the bench.

Kai Hervatz should be permanently demoted to team B.

Plus help Timo Werner.

Play him deep.

Play him like he’s not expected to score.

And like a thief cometh in the night, he will catch his opponent sleeping.

Hakim Ziyech hasn’t really had time to enjoy a partnership with Pullisic.

It’s a promising team.

We are still unfair with Lampard.

This players will need to gel.

It’s…

— Kai Havertz’s first season in the EPL.

— Timo Werner’s first as well.

— Same for Hakim Ziyech.

It’s a new squad that needs time.

See the defenders.

— Old Thiago is just coming.

Ben Chilwel, Recce James, Anthonio Ruediger and TS still need to understand themselves.

It’d be a miracle seeking venture to expect Chelsea to win the EPL this season.

Chelsea is not a Level A club like Bayern, Madrid, Barca, PSG that are expected to win their respective leagues year in, year out.

So why the wailing?

As if Chelsea is at Number 10 on the table (okay agreed, 8 is bad) but Arsenal is cruising at spot 10 on the table. 2 clubs with baby managers.

It’s another season for Manchester City. Leicester City tops the table with 38 points after 19 games. Pep’s boys are 2 games short. If you add the points of those 2 games as potential wins, they will top the table with 41 points.

We shouldn’t expect Lampard winning the league this season. Not practicably possible.
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android




Share this on WhatsApp