Share this on WhatsApp
 


Contrary to widespread claims that firmer Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos Professor Ibidapo Obe died from Covid-19 complications, his family has in a strongly worded statement debunk the claims.
The family debunked a trending video on social media displaying that the late VC was infected at a party he attended, indicating that the source of his death was linked to coronavirus complications.
The family in a statement by Dimeji Kayode-Adedeji, cousin to the late Professor, protested that the circulated video was mischievously posted on social media by the authors, noting that the party being referred to was attended years back before emergence of coronavirus.
The statement read in part: “It has come to our notice, a video trending on social media where late Prof Oye Ibidapo-Obe was at a party with his wife, which is now being mischievously presented as a source of his death. They attributed the video clip to source of contracting coronavirus.”

The family emphasized that it was necessary to put the record straight, saying that while alive, the deceased was mindful of the virus, and cautious of the guidelines and protocols, which necessitated him carrying out many of his functions on zoom.webinar
“To put the record straight, the trending video was a party attended years ago, even before the emergence of coronavirus, and in addition to this, our father in his lifetime is also mindful of the virus and cautious of the guidelines and protocols, which necessitated him carrying out many of his academic and social functions among others on zoom/webinar,” the family indicated in the statement.
The statement further indicated that all family members voluntarily went to take coronavirus test which results indicated negative so as to erase fear of community infection and douse the tension form video display showing coronavirus as source of the former VC’s death.
The family had declared: “To further douse the insinuation of coronavirus as source of his death, the bereaved wife, Mrs. Sola Ibidapo-Obe, alongside other family members had thrice presented themselves for coronavirus tests after our father’s demise, and the results were confirmed negative on each of the medical examination.
‘The death and cause is best known to God, who, we as mortal could not question, but to take solace in the Almighty who is a comforter, because before our father’s death he remained bubbling and active.”
The family, however, expressed appreciation and thanks sympathizers for standing with them and rendering support at this trying period, and prayed that God will continue to be with them.
“We also used this opportunity to appreciate and thank all sympathizers for standing with us and rendering support for us at this trying period and pray that God will continue to guide each and everybody. No doubt, it is painful that he left us at 71, but we are also happy that he lived a fulfilled life, and we thank God for a life well spent. He came, he saw, and he conquered. Finally, we thank other family members across the globe, friends, colleagues, and associates, as we commence befitting burial arrangements for our darling father. God bless you abundantly,” the family declared.
Share this on WhatsApp