Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A healthy medical doctor in the United States of America was identified to have died 15 days after receiving COVID-19 vaccine. The doctor was said to be in full healthy condition before the COVID-19 vaccine was administered on him.
Accordingly, Miami medical examiner was said to be conducting investigation into the death of the 56 years old Dr. Gregory Michael. He was said to have died from a rare autoimmune disease 15 days after being vaccinated. It was gathered that Michael’s wife, Heidi Neckelmann, had expressed that her husband’s death should serve as a warning to other people on the COVID-19 vaccination across the world.
Heidi Neckelmann was gathered to have insisted that said her husband, 56-year-old Dr. Gregory Michael, was “perfectly healthy” before the COVID-19 vaccination. She declared that her husband “sought emergency care three days after the shot because he had dots on his skin that indicated internal bleeding.”
Michael was said to have received the vaccine on December 18, 2020, at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach, where he worked for 12 years as an OB-GYN; but died on January 3, 2021 after suffering a hemorrhagic stroke related to a lack of platelets, a condition said to be called thrombocytopenia, or acute idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP).
Neckelmann was cited to have narrated in a media interaction: “He was in very good health. He didn’t smoke, he drank alcohol once in a while but only socially. He worked out, we had kayaks, he was a deep-sea fisherman.
“They tested him for everything you can imagine afterwards, even cancer, and there was absolutely nothing else wrong with him.”
However, Pfizer was identified to have in a statement, argued that the vaccine maker is aware of and “actively investigating” the death; protesting: “we don’t believe at this time that there is any direct connection to the vaccine.”
Pfizer was cited to have declared:
“There is no indication — either from large clinical trials or among people who have received the vaccine since the government authorized its use last month – that it could be connected to thrombocytopenia.”
Neckelmann was said to have insisted that her husband’s death was “100% linked” to the vaccine.
Share this on WhatsApp