Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The perceived 2023 presidential ambition of former governor of Lagos state and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, may have hit another brick wall following alleged plots by powerful interests in the North to cage him, and therefore scuttle the plans before it take shape, National Daily has gathered.
While Tinubu political ambition for the next election is yet to be publicly announced, he is generally believed to be planning to replace President Muhammadu Buhari, whose second and final term ends on 29 May 2023.
The new plot against him this time is being spear-headed by some powerful politicians from the North, whose aim is to drive a wedge between Tinubu and President Buhari.
The APC stalwart is being accused of funding various organizations around the country to cause unrest, one of which was the #EndSARS protests in the southwestern part of the world, allegedly to cripple the country and disrespect President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration on the global front.
Recall that a group, Northern Patriots Assembly, suspected to be supported by some northern politicians had recently called on the police to arrest Tinubu over the ultimatums issued by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and a Yoruba activist, Sunday Igboho, to Fulani herdsmen in Ondo and Oyo states.
The group accused the leader of APC of being responsible for the conflict in the South-West between Yoruba youths and Fulani herdsmen.
“As we all know, Tinubu is strongly targeting the presidency in 2023. But as we get closer to the election year, it’s becoming clear to him that he’s not favored by the odds. Tinubu is attempting to disrupt the apple cart by heating up the polity and making the nation ungovernable instead of peacefully embracing his fate as power does not come from man,” the group said.
Another decision, pointing to his strangulation within the party, was the dissolution of the party’s national working committee, which some political observers have argued was done to reduce Tinubu’s influence in the party.
Also as part of the plots, some highly placed members of President Buhari’s kitchen cabinet, are also allegedly calling on the President to have a close watch on the Jagaban.
They accused Tinubu of sabotaging the country’s war against insecurity and instigating Nigerians against the Buhari-led government, especially those from his South-West area.
According to a reliable source, the group urged the President to direct security agencies to investigate the APC stalwart’s recent activities, an attempt to drag a wedge between the two ahead of the 2023 general election.
It is uncertain how much Tinubu and Buhari trust each other and if, for the next presidential election, the President will support the former governor as the APC nominee.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp