Share this on WhatsApp
 


Thomas Tuchel, a German was on Tuesday confirmed as the new manager of Chelsea, replacing Frank Lampard, who was sacked on Monday following a string of bad runs in the EPL.
He joins Chelsea after a short period of unemployment, having been relieved of his duties at Paris Saint-Germain just before the New Year.
Tuchel will be the 13th different boss at Stamford Bridge since the Russian billionaire took over the Premier League club in 2003 and only time will tell if he is an unlucky or lucky number.
Tuchel, who signed an 18-month contract with option for further year, is a German football manager, who has served as head coach at Borussia Dortmund and PSG, among other clubs.
Born on August 29, 1973, Tuchel is a former footballer who lists Augsburg, Stuttgarter Kickers and SSV Ulm as clubs he plied his trade with, but his career as a player was relatively short-lived.
Forced to retire at the age of 25 due to chronic knee issues, the ex-defender quickly moved into coaching and worked with Stuttgart’s youth teams before taking over as manager of Augsburg’s second team.
His first big break as a coach came in 2009 when he replaced Jurgen Klopp as manager of Mainz in the Bundesliga and, six years later, he replaced Klopp again when he was appointed Dortmund boss in 2015.
Tuchel’s work with Dortmund earned him plenty of recognition across Europe as one of the brightest minds in coaching and he was hired as PSG head coach in 2018, spending two-and-a-half-years at the helm.
Tuchel spent two-and-a-half trophy-laden years at PSG and his record with the Ligue 1 outfit is impressive.
He managed the French capital club for 127 matches, winning 95 of those and losing just 19 overall – meaning he boasts a win percentage of 74.8 percent from his time there.
In all, Tuchel won six trophies at PSG, including two Ligue 1 titles, the Coupe de France, Coupe de la Ligue and two Trophées des Champions.
As well as that, he brought the club closest to Champions League glory, steering them all the way to the final of the competition in 2019-20, where they ultimately lost to Bayern Munich.
Tuchel spent a similar amount of time as Borussia Dortmund head coach and, while he was unable to upset Bayern Munich’s dominance in the Bundesliga, his record was still commendable.
He steered Dortmund to victory in 67 out of 107 games, suffering defeat on 17 occasions, posting an overall win percentage of 62.6%.
Tuchel is often likened to legendary German coach Jurgen Klopp due to the fact that he has been hired as a direct replacement for him on two separate occasions.
Share this on WhatsApp