Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
There is rising fear over the scientific validity of the newly discovered coronavirus vaccines being distributed for human treatment or prevention of coronavirus infection across the world. The rising apprehension has been accelerated since deaths are being recorded in frontline countries already distributing and treating citizens with different brands of coronavirus vaccines. In the United States of America, an 86-year-old sports legend, Home Run King Hank Aaron, has been declared dead after18 days of being administered Moderna coronavirus vaccine.
It was gathered that Hank Aaron had been given the first of two doses of Moderna vaccine on January 5, 2021 to encourage Black Americans to accept the coronavirus medical intervention and receive the vaccine. Unfortunately, the sports icon, Hank Aaron, was declared dead after the Moderna vaccine injection on January 5.
A CNN report indicated that Aaron died “peacefully in his sleep,” and that no cause of death was disclosed.
Hank Aaron was said to have been celebrated in the US media earlier in January when his photographs were circulated revenging the Moderna vaccine. He cited having said so: getting vaccinated “makes me feel wonderful.”
Hank Aaron was reported to have been vaccinated at the Morehouse School of Medicine health clinic in Atlanta, USA and his photographs displayed publicly to inspire other Black Americans to step up to the plate and get the vaccine.
“Rolling up their sleeves to take the first of two doses, these octogenarians, their spouses and several other civil rights leaders who received the shots in a brand-new health clinic at the Morehouse School of Medicine acknowledged the legacy of mistrust that many African Americans have toward medical research, stemming from the infamous Tuskegee experiment in which U.S. health workers left syphilis untreated in Black men without their consent, making them suffer needlessly.
“I don’t have any qualms about it at all, you know. I feel quite proud of myself for doing something like this. … It’s just a small thing that can help zillions of people in this country,” a report had highlighted.
From Germany and other European countries to America, the adverse effects of coronavirus vaccines are becoming obvious in the frontline countries that have adopted different brands of vaccines for treatment or prevention of coronavirus.
In Nigeria, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State had raised alarm over the hurried claim to discovery of coronavirus vaccines less than one year of the outbreak and declaration that the virus has no cure.  The Kogi
State governor expressing skepticism over the effectiveness or authenticity of the various coronavirus vaccines had cautioned the Nigerian government against administering coronavirus on citizens in the country, declaring that they are bringing the vaccines to kill people in Nigeria.
Though the Nigeria Governors Forum dissociated the group from Governor Bello’s comment on the coronavirus vaccine status in human health, reports of deaths after receiving coronavirus vaccines in frontline countries are beginning to prove Governor Bello right.
 
Share this on WhatsApp