Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State may have leaked the secret of the Nigerian government on populist suspected game of identifying malaria ailments as coronavirus infection in the country. The suspicion was first made public by certain high profile individuals who include the President emeritus of Daar Communications Plc, High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, who had raised alarm that persons claimed to have tested negative to coronavirus were treated with malaria drugs at the isolated centers. Several other people raised similar alarm after being taken to the isolated centres on the claim that they tested negative to coronavirus.
Governor Sanwo-Olu may have ultimately let the cat out of the bag when at the Press Conference on COVID-19 Update at the Lagos House, Ikeja, on Tuesday, he told residents in Lagos to consider any malaria-like symptoms as COVID-19 infection unless and until proven otherwise. The Nigerian government has been struggling with rising figures of coronavirus infection which many citizens doubt the authenticity of the figures and the veracity of the claimed infections.
Governor Sanwo-Olu had directed that anyone with such symptoms should proceed to any of the state’s public health facilities or laboratories to get tested for free. He maintained that “seeking help early and quickly significantly improves the chances of survival for severe to critical cases.”
The Lagos State Governor was of the view that the second wave of coronavirus has now necessitated the need for more oxygen plants in the country, as well as the reopening of some of the previously closed isolation centres, such as the INDO Isolation Centre and Gbagada Isolation Center to contain the rising cases and re-flattening the curve in the shortest possible time.
Governor Sanwo-Olu had in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, declared: “Over the last few weeks, the demands for oxygen has risen from 70 six-litre cylinders per day to 350 six-litre cylinders in our Yaba Mainland Hospital. This is projected to more than double to 750 six-cylinders, before the end of January 2021.
“ln addition to providing oxygen at our isolation centres, the Lagos State Government has decentralized the availability of oxygen across the State through the provision of 10 oxygen and sampling kiosks. Oxygen therapy and other related services will be provided to patients that require them.
“Five of these 10 oxygen centers have been commissioned while the remaining five will be ready for use within the next four weeks. It is our expectation that these sampling kiosks would be easily accessible to residents that require oxygen therapy at the level of LGAs as stabilization points prior to onward transmission to our Isolation centres, if required.
“This strategy is to further increase the fighting chance of Lagos residents that have contracted the virus and require immediate oxygen therapy.”
Meanwhile, in Dubai, residents now treat coronavirus as malaria, and no one fears the infection anymore after the lockdown. Sources from Dubai said that people are now going about their normal businesses without any regard to the propaganda about coronavirus being a deadly infection. The source added that the rate of infection has even dropped remarkable since people have become conscious that the so-called coronavirus pandemic is no more than malaria which can be treated without the complications proponents of coronavirus pandemic propound to generate unnecessary fears across the world.
The federal government has recently been unfolding rising figures which the government claimed is the second wave of coronavirus to reflect the feelings in Europe and America. The figures have not proven by the government with facts or evidence to validate the claims.  The government further use the claimed figures, which are disputed by Nigerians on the streets, to threaten a second lockdown of the country at a time the economy is in recession and citizens are struggling for survival, while the government is disbursing huge funds on the coronavirus project.
The Lagos State governor has made it clear that coronavirus may not be more than malaria, a notion that has been adopted in some counties in recent time.
Share this on WhatsApp