Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
As part of measures to avert rising carnage on the roads and lessened the gridlock that has rendered the Apapa area of Lagos less profitable for investors in all sectors, the Lagos State Government has banned trucks and trailers from plying roads in the state during day time.
Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde who announced this new development, said the Lagos state government has mapped out dedicated routes to be plied between 9:00pm and 6:00am daily.
Oladeinde urged stakeholders to put aside their sentiments and think of other motoring public as this isn’t geared towards spitting them but opening up the State for greater economic realities, adding that attitudinal change on the part of truck drivers was necessary if any progress would be made.
In the trucks restricted routes analysis, Director, Transport Operations, Engr. Abdulhafis Toriola, clarified the routes to be followed and vehicle specifications.
According to him, any vehicle above 6ft with three sets of number plates is considered a Trailer and an Articulated Vehicle, explaining that Ikorodu road, Maryland, Costain and Funsho Williams avenue will be restricted.
The Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Hon. Oluwatoyin Fayinka declared that none compliance from truck drivers would be met with the full weight of the Law with sanctions exerted on offenders, advising that they utilize the grace period to get their act together and conform to the directives issued out.
While requesting the Nigerian Port Authority to furnish the Ministry with information on vehicles call up schedule on daily basis, Fayinka maintained that it would also help control the influx of vehicles into Lagos, especially Apapa ports and prevent the loitering of tankers and trucks along road corridors with its attendant damage on road infrastructure which contributes to traffic gridlock.
The representative of the Nigerian Ports Authority, (NPA) Mr. Ayodele Durowaye lauded the proposed initiative by the State Government, stating that it wasn’t a new development, he however advised that a forum be created to discuss the technicalities and draw up solutions that will ensure safety and ease stakeholders’ operations.
Also reacting, the Lagos Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Olumide Ogungbemide stated that the loss of a life could not be equated to sentiments being raised by truckers, disclosing further that only 8% of the operators have minimum safety requirements.
In the same vein the General Manager, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Engr. Olajide Oduyoye and the Director Vehicle Inspection Service, Engr. George Akin-Fashola appealed to the Stakeholders to support the directive in consideration for the citizenry and prevent avoidable enforcement from the Government as the road infrastructure belongs to everyone.
They assured that their agencies are ready to work with the unions to get their members acquainted on safety requirements and help beef up their services in line with the provision of the Law on safety of lives and property.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp