Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Former governor of Ogun state, Segun Osoba and the current gover of the state, Dapo Abiodun are on a collision course over nominees for the All Progressives Congress local government executives nominees.
National Daily gathered that loyalist of the former governor have rejected the list of the state APC caretaker committee.
The Osoba loyalists are alleging that the group loyal to Government Dapo Abiodun had tampered with the harmonised committee list of the party in Ogun.
Recall that the Osoba loyalists in December 2019 disagreed with Gov Abiodun over his list of commissioner nominees, accusing him of sidelining them.
It appears the governor has not done much to pacify the aggrieved party members, who claimed they worked for his emergence as the number one indigene of the Gateway State.
While the Ogun APC caretaker committee led by Yemi Sanusi is loyal to Abiodun, the Osoba loyalists in a statement jointly signed by 40 of their leaders in Abeokuta, accused the Sanusi-led committee of “unjustly upturning the collective decision of the majority”.
According to them, the party’s state working committee had ordered that all local governments should have party executives in place. As a result, all the local governments were said to have submitted their executives list.
While saying the Ogun APC has become factional, the Osoba loyalists said different lists were submitted, including that of Abeokuta South.
“For this reason, Ogun State APC Executive Committee set up a harmonisation committee to resolve all the differences,” a source said.
However, the group said they were surprised to see that the harmonisation lists were tampered with.
They alleged that names that were submitted were replaced, adding that some names that were not in the harmonised list were smuggled-in.
This, they said, is unacceptable and grossly unconstitutional.
Meanwhile, the APC caretaker Committee Publicity Secretary, Tunde Oladunjoye, has assured the aggrieved party members that the issue would be looked into.
Share this on WhatsApp