Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Edo State Government and the Korean International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) have finalized arrangements for the construction of a Model Smart School at Abudu in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of the state.
The team from the Korean government who were in Benin City on a two-day visit to ascertain the level of readiness of the Edo State Government towards following through with implementation of the  project, expressed satisfaction with the government’s support and input in the project.
The Model Smart School is being constructed in partnership with the Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) and the Universal Basic Education Commission, (UBEC).
The KOICA team met with Governor Godwin Obaseki on the first day of the visit and explained the rationale behind the Smart Model School in the state and had a meeting with SUBEB and UBEC on the second day.
At the meeting, the Executive Chairman of SUBEB, Dr. Joan Oviawe, said that the goal of SUBEB is to ensure that there is quality and free basic education for every child in Edo, noting, “One way Edo SUBEB is doing this is through the EdoBEST programme.”
She also gave a presentation on the EdoBEST programme and how much the programme has positively influenced education in Edo state.
In addressing concerns about the Model Smart School, which is a technology-based teaching and learning environment for preparing pupils, leveraging on Information Communication Technology, the Chairman of SUBEB explained how the School will be effectively and efficiently maximized, emphasizing on the strategic location, the practical incorporation, where pre-teachers will get involved with teaching and also get used to the teaching environment from the onset.
She further disclosed that there will be a Mini-stadium in the Model school for sporting activities, and also a tech hub as well, mentioning that co-curricular is as important as learning in the classroom. Dr. Joan Oviawe also made mention of plans the state government is currently developing to make provisions for learners to have their own tablets, just like the teacher’s tablet.
After the meeting, SUBEB, UBEB and KOICA visited the site, where the Model School is being built opposite the College of Education, in Abudu, of Edo State.
Caption for picture:  L-R: Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki; Deputy Country Director, Korean International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), Eunjin Kwon and the Executive Chairman of Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Dr. Joan Oviawe during a two-day visit by the Korean team to Benin City, the Edo State capital to finalise arrangements for the construction of a Model Smart School at Abudu in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of the state.
Share this on WhatsApp