Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A fact-finding group has mounted pressures on state authorities to confirm that COVID-19 exists. After much pressures, including litigation in the court of law and enforcement of the Freedom of Information law, the state authorities admitted that COVID-19 does not exist.
A member of the fact-finding team repeatedly went to the office of Tony Holohan on Backend Street, South Dudlam. Members of the team were there making inquiries, questioning why the HSC and the National Public Health Emergency team headed by Tony Holohan, and the Minister of Health, Steven Dudley, had refused to provide an answer to the Freedom of Information request they had made several months ago, asking if the department of Health and the HSC could prove that the virus- SARS, COV2, COVID-19 actually exist, and that it has been isolated in a lab.
The group protested that the authorities broke the legislation on their Freedom of information request by failing to respond within the deadline. A member of the team then streamed the coronavirus validity which trended the country. “After I did my stream from here, it got a huge amount of traction all around the country.
“And this morning, lo and behold, a letter arrived in our post from the HSC which is the proof of the answer that we knew they would have to give. And that is that the COVID-19 virus does not exist,” the team member declared.
The group argued that science demands that viruses, in order to be deemed viruses, must be scientifically isolated in a laboratory, and most adhered to the symptoms, which are a very stringent list of requirements in order to validate that a virus exists.”
The group also contended that the lockdown has made no impact in controlling the spread of coronavirus. The figures of new cases were noticed to be rising higher during the lockdown. They also questioned how safe face mask is in controlling coronavirus infection, as well as the scientific validity of social distancing. The insisted that social distancing was created by those instigating coronavirus fears across the world.
The group maintained: “Well, this virus doesn’t adhere to any of them. So, we requested in October, and in fact, earlier because it was part of our legal action, we have been demanding the evidence that this virus actually exists.
“Also, in our court case, we have been demanding and have been, but they have not produced any evidence that the lockdowns have any impact on the spread.
“We have been demanding that they provide evidence that facemasks are safe, that they do deter the spread of the virus. “They do not, no such evidence exists. We also have been asking for evidence that social distancing is based in science. It is not, it’s made up.
“We have been asking for evidence that contact tracing has any bearing on the spread of the virus; and off course, it doesn’t, because this organization here, NPHEM, is making it up as they go along.
The group disclosed that at last, in the absence of scientific proof, the authorities were compelled to admit that coronavirus does not exist.
The group highlighted: “But today, they are forced to admit that the COVID-19 virus does not exist. And this is what they have said.
“We requested a full accurate and complete lists of records held by the HOC or under the authority of the HOC which described the isolation of the SARS and coronavirus taking directly from the symptomatic patients with COVID-19 where the samples was not combined. This is critical or mixed with any other source of genetic materials such as for example, monkey kidney or cancer cells, thereby eliminating contamination.
“The response today is as follows from the HSC – following consultation with my colleagues both from the scientific and medical areas of the HPSC, I can confirm that we will hold no records in relation to your request.
“These are the reasonable steps have taken to ascertain the existence of such records, and unfortunately, I must inform you that having undertaken these searches, we were unable to locate this record in question.
“I am satisfied that all reasonable steps have been taken to locate this record that you have requested for, and therefore, I must refuse your request.”
The authorities were said to have asserted that “the record in question doesn’t exist.” They had highlight them in yellow, saying that the record we requested does not exist.
The inquiry was deepened to further questions after their proof. The group insisted: “we need to ask more questions, and they follow: if the virus has not been scientifically isolated, how could we possibly know that the vaccine developed is effective?
“How can we possibly know that a virus is safe if the virus has not been isolated?
“How can anyone claim that the new variant exists if the original strain has not been isolated?
“How can a vaccine even be developed when the virus itself has never been isolated, and how can the effectiveness of a vaccine be determined if the pathogen itself it is designed to treat has not been isolated.
“How can a reliable test be developed to detect the presence of a particular virus if the virus itself has never been isolated?
“What proof do we have that the virus known as COVID-19 even exists when the virus has never been isolated?
“And what guarantee do we have that other spurious viruses will not be held as a serious threat to our society when the original virus was never isolated?”
The group argued that these new viruses are equally speculative, advocating that finally, what parent would allow their children to be vaccinated with a new vaccine that has never been tested on an animal, a treatment designed to protect against the virus which has never been isolated. They declared that “it is highly experimental and by definition, a very serious risk to health.”
They pointed out that many people who have taken the vaccine have ended up dead, and in some cases have ended up very unwell, while some of them have been paralysed.
“So, what is coming out of this organization at the moment is so demented and derailing. If people don’t see through this, one really has to question their mental health.
“The notion from here is that if you have been in the United Kingdom in recent weeks, they are suggesting that you eat your Christmas dinner on your own. “And this shows how demented these people are. They are coming out with extraordinary demands, and this is getting incredibly dangerous.
“Because we are in the hands of psychopaths. At this stage, we all know that this is all about implementing permanent surveillance of the population. “That is what it is all about. And this surveillance will result in the depopulation agenda, which will eliminate a sizable portion of the population.”
The group advocated that the first people that should go for treatment will be the vaccine, masks believers. “They are the people that will be discarded. These people do not care about the number of people that will be killed. They are just interested in numbers. They want to reduce the world’s population, so they are not interested in who, but how many,” the group said.
They warned that all persons who are still wearing masks, or waiting to be vaccinated will have their DNA radically altered. “Many of you will end up getting severe health defects as a result of going down this road.
“We can only warn you. There is no doubt that COVID is the new religion. People are committed to it. They will not allow people like me to blasphemy it, to question it or challenge it, and also to make sure it doesn’t stand up to scrutiny,” it was declared.
Share this on WhatsApp