Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Former governor of Imo state and Senator Owelle Rochas Okorocha, appears to have fallen out with the ruling All Progressives Party (APC) with his recent call for a new political alliance to rescue the country.
He spoke when Rivers State Governor; Nyesom Wike led him to inaugurate the Rumuche/Rumuakunde/Ohna Awuse Link Road in Emohua Local Government Area.
Okorocha, who represents Imo West in the Senate, was recently accused by Governor Hope Uzodimma of planning to destroy the APC before defecting to another party.
Inaugurating the link road, the senator, who said he was not a PDP member, stated that people of like-minds needed to join forces for the betterment of the country.
He made a veiled reference to Wike, a PDP governor and himself as some of the “good people” that could form the new political alliance. In this dispensation, there are many bad people in APC, many bad people in PDP.
Facing his host directly, Okorocha said: “Governor Wike, this is my hand of friendship. Let us bring all like minds, all great people of Nigeria. Rather than complaining, let us come together to make this country greater and greater as it should be.”
The senator advised Nigerians to embrace each other irrespective of their political affiliations in order to break the barriers that make it difficult for them to work together for the good of the country.
Okorocha described Wike as a courageous leader, who had spoken truth to power and continued to improve the lot of his people with his project delivery mantra.
The former governor said political power remained a trust, which could only be justified when used for the common good.
He pointed out that it was obvious that the masses were not asking for too much from their leaders other than basic necessities of life.
Responding, Governor Wike said bringing Okorocha to inaugurate the link road did not mean that he was fraternising with the opposition party.
He said: “Let me tell you what you may not understand. I don’t believe that you must only have friends in your own party. You must build relationships across borders but that doesn’t mean that you’ll sell your party.
He said: “Let me tell you what you may not understand. I don’t believe that you must only have friends in your own party. You must build relationships across borders but that doesn’t mean that you’ll sell your party.
Wike counseled members of the APC in the state to discard politics of bitterness and allow projects to reach their communities.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp