Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after a Federal High Court in Abuja on Saturday dismissed the certificate forgery suit against Governor Godwin Obaseki by the All Progressives Congress (APC), declared that the second term victory of Obaseki was ordained by God and endorsed by the people of Edo State.
The PDP in a statement on Saturday by the State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, emphasized that the judgement of the court is a “testimony to the fact that this government was enthroned by the wish of Edo people and had the blessings of God.”
The PDP, congratulating Governor Obaseki on his legal victory after his September 19 election victory at the polls, counseled the APC to join the Edo State Government to “build a society where hard work is rewarded, where hate should be condemned and love for a prosperous state the driving spirit of our being.”
The State PDP maintained: “It is now clear that Edo APC and the news and stories they propagate are built on falsehood, social greed, intellectual imbecility and pathological irresponsibility. Edo people are advised not to only punish them with their votes on election days, but to consider them public enemy number one henceforth!
“However, if Each and every one of them own up to their role, tender well-intentioned apologies and commit to being of good character, show respect to Edo people, toe the path of honour and have the decency of admitting to the fact that they spread lies and concocted fake stories to sell their mandate and attempted to dupe the courts, Edo people may show some mercy. After all, Governor Obaseki is a reasonable man. Edo people are reasonable people.
“It is the most honourable thing to do; it is the noblest step to take. Governor Obaseki, we once again congratulate you and the good and patient people of Edo State as your RESETTING EDO agenda moves to the next level.”
Obaseki crossed several hurdles to pick the PDP ticket before defeating the APC candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, in the September 19 governorship election. Obaseki had 307,955 of the total votes, 84,336 to defeat Ize-Iyamu who had 223, 619 votes.
Obaseki’s electoral victory also sealed former APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole’s, godfather ambition. Oshiomhole frustrated Obaseki out of the ruling APC but faced double consequences of being frustrated out of the APC as national chairman by fiat, and subsequently, being abandoned by the Edo people in the governorship election. Invariably, Obaseki will be celebrating three victories over Oshiomhole – political victory in APC, electoral victory at the polls and legal victory in the court.
Share this on WhatsApp