Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Future African Leaders Awards (FALA), an initiative of the Pastor Dr. Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International, of the Loveworld Incorporated, was set up to nurture young Africans for future leadership in the African continent. At a press conference in Lagos on Tuesday, Pastor Pat Jumoke disclosed that FALA is coordinated by the Future African Leaders Foundation established by the President of the Loveworld Incorporated, Christ Embassy Ministry. She explained that the main mandate is to identify, foster and celebrate young African leaders making positive impacts in their communities across the continent. The mission of the Foundation, according to Pastor Jumoke,  is to explore and expand leadership potentials across Africa. She maintained that this is because healthy communities and nations require strong innovative leadership index characters. “For the Future African Leaders Foundation, there are quite a number of programmes under the Foundation,” Pastor Jumoke said, adding: “and we have mentorship programmes that enable the youths to make impact by tackling the current challenges facing the African continent.”
Pastor Jumoke highlighted that the Foundation identifies youths who have the potentials to be remarkable leaders within their communities and nations. “The foundation nurtures these young leaders through training and support initiatives in their ambition to achieve their full abilities and use their leadership skills to improve the lives of others,” she declared.
Mrs. Jumoke further explained that the Future African Leaders Foundation is actually a system to foster community development by young African leaders, saying that annually at the Future African Leaders Awards ceremony, the foundation receives entries in millions across the continent. She said that the Foundation received 30 million nominees, from which the top 10 winners are selected among whom emerges the star winner.
Pastor Jumoke acknowledged that the FALA recipients are doing remarkable things in their communities and nations, adding that the Foundation has two star prize winners.
Pastor Jumoke said that the prizes they receive from the Foundation is to encourage their endeavours in the things they are currently doing, adding that “it encourages essentially those that show youth leadership in their communities.” She stated that the Foundation also have recognition for other nominees, explaining that all recipients are to be motivated to continue the path of nation building in their individual capacities even as they go forward in the future.
It was clarified that the FALA beneficiaries are not limited members of the Christ Embassy Ministry, the motivational intervention Fund is open to all young people between the ages of 18 to 23 years who have leadership talents and skills to promote development in the grassroots beginning from remote communities unto the nation building scheme of their respective countries in the African continent.
The Future Africa Leaders’ Award, an initiative of the LoveWorld President, Dr. Reverend Chris Oyakhilome has been recognizing the commitment of young leaders in the past five years to the progress and development of the continent at every New Year’s Eve Service. Among the nominated young African leaders, the winners receive an award from the President of LoveWorld, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome at the Award ceremony.
It was disclosed that this Award Ceremony takes place during the 31st of December Crossover Service of LoveWorld (Christ Embassy) at the LoveWorld Convocation Arena (LCA) Billingsway, Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos.
More details on the FALA project in subsequent reports.
Share this on WhatsApp