Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Bandits at the weekend laid ambush on a convoy of 16 police officers, killing four and kidnapping one. The police authorities decried that the bandits ambushed the police convoy along Birnin-Gwari Funtua Highway, Kano, and attacked the 16 policemen on Friday.
The Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, CP Frank Mba, in a statement on Sunday, indicated that the police officers, security personnel attached to Operation Puff Adder, were deployed to Niger State in the sustained operation to reclaim the public space and tackle incidents of banditry, kidnapping, and other violent crimes in the state. He said that the officers were returning to their base in Kano after completion of their special duty when they were ambushed by the bandits.
CP Mba stated that there was a fierce gun-battle between the policemen and the bandits which resulted in the death of the four officers in the convoy.
CP Mba pointed out that contrary to unconfirmed reports in some sections of the media that 18 officers were kidnapped, only sixteen were attacked, while the 11 surviving policemen successfully repelled the attack and “accordingly and neutralized the bandits in their tens while many of the bandits scampered into the bush with gunshot injuries”.
Mba said that the 11 surviving officers led by the Unit Commander successfully recovered the bodies and firearms of their fallen colleagues, adding that efforts are being intensified to rescue the officer still missing.
The FPRO disclosed that the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed A. Adamu, has commended the police officers attached to the Police Mobile Force – 9 PMF Squadron in Kano for displaying uncommon gallantry and repelling the attack on their convoy.
“The IGP, while commiserating with the families of the officers who have yet again paid the supreme price in the service of the nation, assured that their death shall not be in vain.
“The IGP further assured citizens that the Force is not deterred and will not relent in its commitment to delivering on its mandate and ensuring that all activities of bandits and other unscrupulous elements in the area and other parts of the country are brought to check,” Mba declared.
Share this on WhatsApp