Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A renowned kidnapper, and criminal gang leader, in Niger State, Abubakar Umaru, a.k.a. Buba Bargu, has made queer history of kidnapping another criminal gang leader and notorious kidnapper in northern Nigeria, Mohammed Ahmadu a.k.a CONFIRM, who was released on payment of N1.5 million. Abubakar Umaru has, however, been arrested by the Special Tactical Squad (STS) of the Nigeria Police.
The Police narrated that Abubakar Umaru, a.k.a. Buba Bargu, gang kidnapped one Mohammed Ahmadu, a.k.a CONFIRM, ‘m’, 30 years, a kidnap kingpin, and leader of another notorious kidnapping group in the North Central when he came to their hideout in the forest to sell live ammunition to the group. According to the Police “he (CONFIRM) was held and shot in the hand until his gang members paid a ransom of N1,555,000.00 for his release.” The Police disclosed that five (5) AK47 rifles, five (5) magazines and 120 rounds of AK47 ammunition were recovered from Abubakar Umaru at his hideout in the Forest.
The Nigerian Police Force in an annual report for the year 2020 highlighted the various arrests and recoveries made in the past year, adding that in a renewed commitment by the Force to advance the gains recorded in the fight against crimes in the country in year 2020, operatives of the Nigeria Police Force have arrested 18 criminal suspects for offences of armed robbery, kidnapping, cattle rustling and other violent crimes. The police further highlighted that eight (8) AK47 rifles, one (1) SMG sterling gun, 236 AK47 Ammunition, 12 pieces of SMG sterling gun ammunition, two (2) Toyota Camry Saloon Cars, 2006 and 2014 models (already released to the owners), were recovered.
The Nigerian Police Force in its accountability matrix disclosed that the Police arrested 21,296 suspected dangerous criminals in 2020, recovered 3,347 firearms, 133,496 ammunition, 960 stolen vehicles, and rescued 1,002 kidnapped victims. Accordingly, Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, assured Nigerians of improved security in the year 2021.
The IGP promised that the Force will be unrelenting in the fight against all forms of crimes, especially, kidnapping, armed robbery, banditry, cultism, cybercrime, Sexual/Gender-Based Violence (SGBV), amongst others, across the country in the year 2021. The IGP assured that the Nigerian Police Force will implement aggressive, proactive, intelligence-driven and community-based crime fighting strategies in its quests to make the country safer. He promised the Force will take the battle to the doorsteps of the criminals and also expand its collaboration with the citizens and other Law Enforcement Agencies in its bid to flush out criminal elements in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp