Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Nigerian military has intensified the battle against Boko Haram terrorists in the northeast, carrying out air strike that destroyed Boko Haram training camp in Borno State, northeast Nigeria. The Coordinator of the Defence Media Operations, Major-General John Enenche, in a statement on Saturday, indicated that the military destroyed another Boko Haram terrorist’s training camp in Borno, including a suspected ammunition depot.
Enenche disclosed that the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole carried out the strikes at Nuwar in the Bama area of Borno State on January 14. He added that some Boko Haram members were also neutralised.
Enenche had declared: “This was achieved . . . sequel to intelligence reports indicating that the cluster of huts and other structures in the settlement were being used to conduct combat training for the terrorists on a regular basis.
“Consequently, the Air Task Force, after conducting series of confirmatory aerial surveillance missions, dispatched an appropriate force package of Nigerian Air Force (NAF) helicopter gunships for a night air raid on the location.
“The helicopters scored devastating hits in the target area which led to the neutralization of several BHTs as well as the destruction of some of their structures, including the terrorists’ armoury, where multiple mini-explosions were observed amidst the raging fire. Several other terrorists were taken out in follow-on attacks by the helicopter gunships.
“The Armed Forces of Nigeria, operating in concert with other security agencies and stakeholders, will sustain the offensive against the enemies of our Great Nation. We shall not relent until peace and normalcy are restored not only in the North East but also in every other troubled region of our beloved country.”
Brigadier Bernard Onyeuko, a military Media person, was also said to have disclosed that troops of Operation Tura Takaibango, working jointly with the Air Task Force Operation Lafiya Dole, destroyed seven Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists’ gun trucks. Onyeuko in a statement on Saturday indicated several Boko Haram terrorists were eliminated in the operations.
The troops unleashed onslaught in the terrorists who launched an attack on the military base on the outskirts of Marte in Marte Local Government Area, Borno State.
Brigadier Bernard Onyeuko narrated: “The gallant troops, based on reliable information about the attack, had positioned themselves in an ambush site where they tactically withdrew to and awaited the arrival of the terrorists before they opened fire which led to the fierce battle that resulted in the successes recorded as indicated above.
“The troops are still engaged in the pursuit of the fleeing terrorists for further exploitation. Further details of interest to members of the public will be communicated later.”
Share this on WhatsApp