Share this on WhatsApp
 



Indonesian Navy on Sunday revealed the commencement of investigations into the body parts, wreckage and clothing recovered from the spot of the crashed plane by the appropriate authorities.
The Indonesian authorities also disclosed that the search and rescue team had found the location of two black boxes from a crashed Indonesian aircraft which crashed into the sea few minutes after takeoff with 62 people aboard on Saturday. The authorities acknowledged the finding of the cockpit voice and flight data recorders that could help to explain the cause of the crash.
The search and rescue team which includes divers had brought out body parts, wreckage and clothing from waters at the crash scene in Jakarta. The team said that, so far, five body bags with human remains as well as debris from the crash site in the Java Sea have been brought off the waters.
The head of Indonesia’s Transport Safety Agency, Soerjanto Tjahjanto, was cited to have stated: “We have located the position of the black boxes, both of them.
“Divers will start looking for them now and hopefully it won’t be long before we get them.”
Indonesia President, Joko Widodo, was monitored on Aljazeera News sending government’s “deep condolences” to families of the victims, while appealing to citizens to “pray together so that victims can be found”.
The body parts, a broken tyre and wheel, life jackets and wreckage from the crashed aircraft found in the sea were brought up on Sunday as the corpse were deposited in morgues, waiting for identification by relations.
The Sriwijaya Air Boeing 737-500 lost signal from the radar after the plane made a steep dive about four minutes after takeoff from the Soekarno-Hatta international airport in Jakarta on Saturday afternoon.
The authorities said the 62 passengers on board the crashed plane include Beben Sofian, 59, and her husband Dan Razanah, 58. All the 62 passengers and crew were said to be Indonesia nationals.
The Indonesian, authorities added that 10 children were among the 62 passengers.
Helicopters and a flotilla of warships were deployed in the search for survivors, which as at Sunday afternoon there was no hope of any survivor. The search and rescue operations continued Sunday.
Share this on WhatsApp