Share this on WhatsApp
 


Some state governments in the northwest seem to be rolling out policies that would rather boost banditry and contain the menace in the north. The Katsina State Government appeared to be taking to this when the government inaugurated an Executive Council Committee to take care of the welfare of orphans and widows whose parents or husbands had been killed by bandits in the 11 most affected local government areas. While the action may not be totally wrong, governments in the northwest should be seen to be taking more effective actions to combat the rage of bandits in the zone.
The Deputy Governor of Katsina State, Alhaji Mannir Yakubu, who is chairman of the committee, had disclosed the appointment of the welfare intervention committee by the governor of the state, Aminu Masari. The deputy governor had emphasized that the start executive council had at its 6th regular meeting pointed out with concern the effects of the bandits violence on the socio-economic well-being of the affected communities, particularly, orphans and widows.
The deputy governor said the council, therefore, constituted the committee under his chairmanship to advise the government on how to improve the lives of those affected.
Other terms of reference of the committee, according to the deputy governor, include identifying orphans and widows in the affected local government areas and suggesting the kind of assistance to be provided to the victims by the government.
Others include determining the source of financing for the project and co-opting any other individuals that may assist in the conduct of the committee’s assignment.
The composition of the committee includes the Commissioners of Budget and Planning, Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Special Duties and Women Affairs.
Other members are the Special Advisers on Community Development, Higher Education, Economic Empowerment and Social Intervention, as well as that of Political Matters, among others.
The committee commenced work immediately after inauguration last Tuesday.
Share this on WhatsApp