Share this on WhatsApp
 


President Donald Trump of the United States has accused twitter of removing his account to silence him and obstruct freedom of speech. Trump in a statement decried actions of Twitter and big tech silencing him on Friday night, protesting that, of course, they quickly even limited the @POTUS account. He protested that not allowing the US President to speak to the American people “is what a true coup looks like.”
Trump declared: “As I have been saying for a long time, Twitter has gone further and further in banning free speech, and tonight, Twitter employees have coordinated with the Democrats and the Radical Left in removing my account from their platform, to silence me—and YOU, the 75,000,000 great patriots who voted for me.”
“Twitter may be a private company, but without the government’s gift of Section 230 they would not exist for long,” he added.
He revealed plans to set up own social media platform, inciting his supporters against twitter.
The outgoing US President stated: “I predicted this would happen. We have been negotiating with various other sites, and will have a big announcement soon, while we also look at the possibilities of building out our own platform in the near future. We will not be SILENCED!”
“Twitter is not about FREE SPEECH. They are all about promoting a Radical Left platform where some of the most vicious people in the world are allowed to speak freely. “STAY TUNED!”
It was indicated that the statement came from the account @POTUS, which is a government Twitter account, but the Twitter posts were gone within a few minutes.
Twitter was cited to have argued in a statement: “Using another account to try to evade a suspension is against our rules.
“We have taken steps to enforce this with regard to recent Tweets from the @POTUS account.
“For government accounts, such as @POTUS and @WhiteHouse, we will not suspend those accounts permanently but will take action to limit their use.”
Trump, however, stated: “Silencing a sitting President is absolutely CRIMINAL America. This is what a real insurrection is, this is what a real coup is. We cannot let this stand any longer as Americans.”
Share this on WhatsApp