Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID -19 has denied plans to impose second lockdown after the PTF chairman, Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), had earlier threatened imposition of lockdown to contain the second wave of coronavirus infection.
The SGF in a statement by the Director of Information, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Willie Bassey, indicated that the attention of the PTF “has been drawn to the misinformation circulating in sections of the social media that the Federal Government is contemplating another lockdown this weekend.”
The PTF had asserted that at no time was such consideration or recommendation made in that regard. The task force decried that the misinformation is unfortunate, unpatriotic, and capable of degenerating unnecessary panic and anxiety
The task force appealed to Nigerians to disregard the lockdown report and cooperate with the Federal Government to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country by adhering to the guidelines and protocols and other non-medical interventions the PTF prescribed.
Boss Mustapha, Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 had at a daily briefing of the Task Force in Abuja penultimate week, threatened that if he had his way, he would declare another round of lockdown on the country, while condemning the behaviour of politicians who disregard the coronavirus protocols during electioneering campaigns and other social events. The politicians undermined the guideline on physical distancing and wearing of face masks.
The threat of another lockdown has been generating controversies across the country, essentially, as governments across the country neglected the welfare of citizens during the first lockdown.
Meanwhile, a second lockdown has been precipitating protests and violent uprising in some African countries, where citizens have been standing for their rights.
Also, in Dubai, the United Arab Emirate (UAE), citizens and residents are no longer scared of coronavirus infection. They now consider coronavirus as malaria which can be treated in the hospital or other medical stores. Everyone there is going about his/her normal businesses without panic.
 
Share this on WhatsApp