Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Yoruba activist and freedom fighter, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has refuted claims by Babafemi Ojudu, the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matters that National Leader of the  All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu met with in 2009.
Ojudu had in a piece on Monday said the former Lagos prevailed on Igboho not to disrupt the 2009 governorship rerun election in Ekiti State.
In a write up titled “The Sunday Igboho I Knew” Ojudu said that he was instrumental to the meeting of Tinubu and Igboho where the APC leader persuaded the activist not to interfere with the election.
Ojudu also alleged that Igboho was paid by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to bring in thugs to cause mayhem and influence the outcome of the election, but that after the encounter with Tinubu, Igboho shelved his plans and the rerun was held successfully.
Speaking during a press conference in Ibadan, the capital of Oyo State on Tuesday, Igboho denied ever meeting with either Ojudu or Tinubu over the election in Ekiti.
He also said Igboho agreed to meet with him and Tinubu on the condition that the late Ibadan politician, Lamidi Adedibu, who died in 2008, must not know about the clandestine meeting.
In responding to the piece, Igboho said he wondered how Adedibu who died in 2008, could become an issue in an election held in 2009, one year after.
“Femi Ojudu is a liar. He is out to defame me. Ojodu mentioned Ahmed Tinubu in the piece; you can go and ask Tinubu about the election. I have only worked for two people, the late Lamidi Adesina and Rashidi Ladoja. I have never worked for Adedibu,” Igboho said at the press briefing.
“Adedibu died in 2008 and Ojudu said the same Adedibu asked me to go to Ekiti in 2009. You can see he is a liar. Politicians are trying to penetrate the Yoruba struggle. You can kill the messenger but you cannot kill the message.
“I don’t know any Ojudu and if he is sure that I met him in a hotel, let him swear by the life of his children.
“He should desist from spreading falsehood against me as failure to do so will attract a lawsuit from me.
“He must be ready to prove his allegations or I will sue him. I repeat that I have never met Ojudu or Tinubu,” he concluded.
Share this on WhatsApp