Share this on WhatsApp



Hector Bellerin: Provided a good attacking threat throughout and has struck up an impressive partnership with Bukayo Saka very quickly. Also did a good job defensively whenever he was called upon, which to be fair wasn’t very often. 7.


Rob Holding: Led the Gunners’ back line throughout. Could have been drawn in to giving away a penalty in the second half but didn’t rise to the bait. The 25-year-old is getting better and better in an Arsenal shirt. 7.



Pablo Mari: It’s worth remembering Pablo Mari has only made four Premier League starts for Arsenal. From the way the Spaniard is playing you wouldn’t think it. He was good in the air, positionally sound and composed on the ball. Gabriel may find it hard to get back in the team. 7.


Kieran Tierney: Wore short sleeves in the snow but looked red-hot throughout. Tierney has been good all season, but in the last few games has gone to another level as proved by another assist. Just when you thought there was nothing he couldn’t do the Scot pops up with a belting finish on his right foot too. 9.

Dani Ceballos: Kept play ticking over nicely in the middle of the park and provided good protection to the back four. Did a good job of getting the ball out to Saka as quickly as possible as well which helped run the West Brom defence ragged. 6.


Granit Xhaka: Kept the ball ticking over nicely as Arsenal played out from the back. Did a good job of regularly getting the ball out to Kieran Tierney as quickly as possible and screened the back four well. 7.



Bukayo Saka: It almost goes without saying now but Bukayo Saka was brilliant again. The link up play he showed for his goal was reminiscent of the Arsenal of old. Before that he provided the main goal threat down the right, and West Brom simply couldn’t handle the youngster. 9.

Emile Smith Rowe: Arsenal are being heavily linked to an attacking midfielder in January, but if Smith Rowe’s performances are anything to go by they might as well save their money. The 20-year got another assist and provided some delightful Ozil-esque touches in the box. His introduction cannot be understated in the Gunners revival this season. 8.

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang: On a night when Arsenal’s attackers shone Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s performance was unusually understated. The Gabon striker came close on several occasions but needs a goal now to get his season up and running again. 6.

Alexandre Lacazette: A phenomenal centre forward performance. Linked play beautifully for the second goal, led the Arsenal press with incredible energy and provided two goals for the cherries on top. With six goals in eight Lacazette’s confidence looks back and the Gunners are a much better team for it. 9.

Substitutes –



Ainsley Maitland-Niles: Was solid enough after coming on early in the second half. Didn’t have to do much and couldn’t really influence the game going forwards. 6.

Willian: Was shown by Emile Smith Rowe how much he’s going to have do get back into Mikel Arteta’s starting XI. Well how much he should have to do at least… 6.

Joe Willock: Came on too late to influence the game. n/a.






Share this on WhatsApp