Share this on WhatsApp
 



Former Aviation Minister Femi Fani-Kayode on Tuesday said the next few months would be critical in terms of whether or not Nigeria will survive as one going by what is happening across all states of the federation.
He disclosed this while reacting to a close-door meeting he had with some leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday including with the Chairman of APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni as well as Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello at Buni’s guest house in Abuja.
Fani-Kayode, in a statement on his official Facebook page on Tuesday, noted that the discussions were just based on the state of the nation, pressing national issues, party politics and the way forward.
He said, “Yesterday afternoon I had the distinct honor and pleasure of having a very productive and important meeting with the National Chairman of the APC, Governor Mai Buni of Yobe state and Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state.
“Despite the obvious benefits and wisdom in this noble initiative it amazes me that some people should feel that it is wrong for me to sit with other leaders in the country to discuss issues which touch and concern the national cohesion, future and stability of our country.”
According to him, the discussions centered on the state of the nation, pressing national issues, party politics and the way forward. These meetings are wide-ranging and ongoing and I am delighted to be involved in them.
“The next few months will be critical in terms of whether or not our country will survive as one and I believe that if we want it to do so, dialogue, building bridges and collaboration, even with those that you may disagree with on some issues, is vital and inevitable.
He said Nigerians all across the country must set their differences aside, build bridges and come together as one lest the country drifts into fratricidal butchery and civil war.
“That was the purpose of our meeting. Permit me to add the following for the record. I will always stand for justice and I will never cease to oppose evil. Yet the greatest evil that we are confronted with today is the prospect of a second civil war.
“I also believe in restructuring the country and in a vigorous and effective fight against terrorism. The fact that I am in talks with leaders from a cross section of political parties, including the ruling party, does not in any way derogate from this and does not mean that I will ever change those views,” he added.
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp