Share this on WhatsApp
 


Bandits at the weekend invaded communities in Birnin Gwari and Kajuru local government areas in Kaduna State, burning several houses and sending about 19 people to their early graves. Many people were said to be injured in attacks which occurred at different times in the communities.
The Commissioner for internal Security and Home Affairs in Kaduna State, Samuel Aruwan, was said to have acknowledged the attacks, disclosing that 14 people were killed on Saturday by the bandits who invaded Kutemeshi Village in Birnin Gwari LGA, adding that five others killed in the attack at Kujeni Village in Kajuru LGA same Saturday. The commissioner added that many other people sustained bullet wounds.
The commissioner identified the people killed in Birnin Gwari Local Government as Malan Sani Barume, Yahaya Bello, Amadu Dan Korau, Samaila Niga, Jamilu Haruna, Lawal Majiya, Dan Malam Rabo, Dauda Kafinta, Hassan Mai Makani, Bashir Haruna, Lawal Ali, Mu’azu Haruna, Mai Unguwa Sa’adu and Harisu Bako
He decried that several shops were looted with valuable items carted away by the bandits in the attack.
The commissioner also disclosed that the five people killed in Kujeni Village, Kajuru Local Government Area, by the bandits are Bulus Jatau, Hanatu Emmanuel, Bitrus Tuna, Yohanna Mika, and Monday Ayuba. He said that two others were injured.
The commissioner further disclosed that the bandits set ablaze several houses, storehouses with foodstuff, warehouses loaded with building materials, and a Church in Kajuru Local Government Area.
He said that some of the injured victims have been taken to a neighboring state closer to Kutemeshi for urgent medical attention, adding that others are in transit to an orthopedic hospital in Kaduna. He declared only 14 corpses have been recovered from Kutemeshi.
It was gathered that Governor Nasir El-Rufai, expressing sadness over the attacks, directed the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency to urgently provide relief materials to the affected communities.
Share this on WhatsApp