Share this on WhatsApp
 


President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, asked the Senate to confirm Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa as the substantive Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
In a letter to the President of the Senate, Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, the President said he was acting in accordance with Paragraph 2(3) of Part1, CAP E1 of EFCC Act 2004.
Before Bawa’s nomination to his new role, he was the Zonal Head, Lagos Zonal Office, a position he assumed in August 2020.
Here are ten quick facts about Abdulrasheed Bawa:

Abdulrasheed Bawa is a 40-year-old
Bawa was part of the pioneer EFCC Cadet Officers; course one, 2005.
He joined EFCC In 2004, and became an Assistant Detective Superintendent (ADS). He progressed to the rank of Deputy Detective Superintendent (DDS) in 2007. He rose to become a Senior Detective Superintendent (SDS) in 2010. In 2013, he became a Principal Detective Superintendent (PDS). His last promotion was to the rank of Deputy Chief Detective Superintendent (DCDS) in 2016.
Bawa holds a BSc degree in Economics and Masters in International Affairs and Diplomacy.
He is a trained EFCC investigator with vast experience in the investigation and prosecution of Advance Fee Fraud cases, official corruption, bank fraud, money laundering, and other economic crimes.
He has undergone several specialised training in different parts of the world and was one of the pioneer EFCC Cadet Officers in 2005.
Bawa is among the first set of founding detectives of the EFCC and before his appointment, Bawa was the Lagos zonal head of the anti-graft agency.
He will be taking over from Mohammed Umar, who has been in an acting capacity since July 2020 after the suspension of Ibrahim Magu over allegations of corruption.
Bawa has overseen several notable cases in his time at the top anti-corruption agency. He supervised the biggest operations zonal office of the EFCC in Lagos, having 604 officers and securing 227 convictions.
Bawa enjoys watching Football & Tennis, Reading, Current Affairs, and International Politics.

Share this on WhatsApp