Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The transfer speculations of Kylian Mbappe have dominated the media space in the recent times. Many European giants have been linked with the France World Cup winner after his explosion on the big stages following his previous big money move from Monaco to Paris Saint-Germain in 2017.
The former Monaco young sensation has been heavily linked with a move to Liverpool or Real Madrid and speculation over his future will now only intensify after his world-class performance against Barcelona at Camp Nou on Tuesday night with his hat trick heroism.
Meanwhile, Kylian Mbappe has insisted that he is “happy” at Paris Saint-Germain after his massive demolition of the Catalan giants with his three goals. The talisman Mbappe warned that it would be “stupid” to make a decision on his future after one match.
The 22-year-old attacker was at his brilliant best at Camp Nou, netting a delightful first-half equaliser after Lionel Messi opened the scoring with a spot kick and ruthlessly adding two more goals in the second half.
The Frenchman’s hat-trick, along with Moise Kean’s header, puts PSG firmly in command of the Champions League last-16 tie.
Though Mbappe is yet to win any European title with the Ligue 1 giants and speculation over the past year has linked him with a move to any of the top European giants like Real Madrid and Liverpool.
Mbappe who enters the final 18 months of his deal with PSG while addressing these transfer links after the full-time whistle, told RMC Sport: “It would be stupid to decide my future on a single match National Daily can confirm.
“The truth is that it is about reflecting for the long term. I have always said that I am happy here. This sort of match makes me even happier.”
But with the matters of big money and ambition transfers, one can never say especially with Mbappe’s terrific performance on a big night in Catalonia, this can only intensify speculation over his future as he runs down his deal with PSG.
 
Share this on WhatsApp