Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Former Governor of Imo state, Senator Rochas Okorocha has been released from police custody, according to the spokesperson for Imo State Command, Orlando Ikeokwu.
Okorocha and his associates were arrested after he supervised the unsealing of Royal Spring Palm Estate, Owerri. The property locked by the state government was linked to his wife, Nkechi.
Ikeokwu told Channels that Okorocha was released on Sunday night after he was “invited” for “questioning” over the unsealing of the Spring Palm Estate linked to his wife, Nkechi.
He added that “If anybody is found culpable, definitely, he will be charged to court. If investigation proves that he (Okorocha) has committed an offence, he will be charged to court.”
Recall that the ex-governor stormed the estate with his supporters, policemen, soldiers and personnel of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps on Sunday morning and ordered the unsealing of the estate.
Government officials had also mobilised to the estate, leading to a confrontation that left many persons injured and cars were smashed.
Meanwhile Okorocha has boasted that he has the strongest structure in the state.
He also accused Governor Hope Uzodinma of unleashing hundreds of thugs against him on Sunday.
Okorocha’s spokesman, Sam Onwuemeodo, alleged that Uzodinma’s Special Adviser on Special Duties, Chinasa Nwanari, led an assault on the former governor
His statement accused the aide of storming the estate and destroying vehicles in the former governor’s convoy.
Onwuemeodo noted that policemen and “more than 1000 armed” thugs led by Nwaneri attacked the Senator representing Imo West District.
Onwuemeodo insisted that Okorocha was with only his personal aides.
“We are still watching events as they unfold. Okorocha has the strongest political structure in the state and teaming followers. If he had expected the attack, he would not have moved with his personal aides alone.
“Okorocha has never been a violent man. This planned attack but unprovoked and unwarranted has opened a new, but ugly chapter in the politics of the State. We shall react fully to the situation,” the statement read.
Share this on WhatsApp