Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi, representing Ekiti North Senatorial District under the flag of All Progressive Congress, has called on the National Assembly to help rescue Nigeria from rising insecurity that has rendered the nation unsafe for both foreign nationals and Nigerians.
While addressing the senate, Senator Adetunmbi said Nigeria is facing a serious problem, and that the National Assembly must rise to the occasion and save the country from the jugular of bandits and kidnappers.
“Your Excellency, Mr. Senate President, in 2012, you and I were on the other side of this chamber, and we had reasons to raise a rhetorical question; do we have a government? This was under circumstances that are not as severe as what we are facing now.
“Your Excellency, we’re dealing with a situation that is very grievous because lives are no longer safe in Nigeria, and everyday we’re raising motions here about killings in their scores, missing people in their hundreds in a nation state, Mr. President, there is a problem.
Senator Adetunmbi said he wondered how President Muhammadu Buhari feels when incessant kidnappings and banditry is the order of the day under his watch. “To say that our country is in crisis, because truly I think we’re in crisis. And as statesmen and women of this hallowed chamber, we must rise to the occasion, to save the occasion. Nigeria needs to be saved”
He also reminded the Senate of a statement President Buhari made in 2015 at Chatham House, London where he assured the international community and Nigerians that if elected as President, Nigeria would return to playing its stabilizing role in West Africa, and no inch of Nigeria’s territory would ever be lost to the enemy.
“If President Buhari will not come to address us on this matter, let the parliament go to him, and remind him of this statement that he should provide the leadership. We have a duty as statesmen here to save our nation, and whatever helps Mr. President needs that the senate can provide for him, we have a duty to provide that support.
“Last week we debated Bornu here, again, we debated Bornu today. What’s going on?  If the president will not come to us, let’s go to him. Let’s go as a delegation of this chamber, and go and meet him and encourage him to do the needful so that it will be on record that the senate is not in compliance, and is not in complicity with what is going on. This is something you have done before on that side of the ire, you did it. We did it together,” he added.
Senator Adetunmbi added that the leadership of the senate must forget about party affiliations or election, and help rescue the country from further sinking as a result of insecurity.
Share this on WhatsApp