Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Some international media have set their facilities and staff ready for live telecast of the renewed #EndSARS peaceful protest by Nigerian youths scheduled for Saturday at the Lekki Toll Gate, Lagos. Sources disclosed that the foreign media volunteered to make live telecast the peaceful protest amidst threats by the Nigerian government to broadcast the event live to the international community as they occur. They are also on red alert for firsthand and direct information on the peaceful protest processes and the nature of interventions by the security operatives.
Our sources further said that the interested foreign media are set to commence monitoring of movement within and around the Lekki Toll Gate and its environs from 12 midnight of Friday, using their satellite facilities. The organizations were said to have resolved to avoid missing out in any action, after the experience of the October 20, 2020, incident at the Lekki Toll Gate and the subsequent investigations and controversies. They, therefore, were prepared ahead of time to ensure they get primary information from the scene of action.
Our sources further revealed that the foreign media would be focusing more on issues of the rule of law, freedoms, and the right of the people in the awareness of threats from the Nigerian government as well as #DefendLagos group under the auspices of Lagos State government.
It was also revealed that all eyes will be on Nigeria on Saturday to monitor the renewed #EndSARS protest.
The renewed #EndSARS protest was precipitated by the re-opening of the Lekki Toll Gate for business while the Lagos State Panel of Investigation on the #EndSARS protest and issues of police brutality is yet to conclude its duties or come up with resolutions on justice for victims of October 20 shooting at Lekki Toll Gate. The Nigerian youths became provoked at the decision to reopen the toll gate, demanding justice, and protesting perceived or suspicious cover up by the Lagos State panel of inquiry.
It was gathered that several other terrestrial and satellite television stations in Nigeria may also make live broadcast of the Saturday renewed #EndSARS peaceful protest on Saturday.
Share this on WhatsApp