Share this on WhatsApp

 


Chelsea last summer secured a sensational transfer of Germany striker Timo Werner when the erstwhile RB Leipzig talisman secured his £47.5 million move to Stamford Bridge.
Many have expected the 24-year-old attacker to hit the ground running considering his sparkling form with the Bundesliga giants and his hefty transfer fee.
Sadly, the Stuttgart born forward has endured some difficult start in the English Premier League.
Timo Werner revealing his disappointment, has finally admitted that he has been brought down to earth by his struggles at Chelsea and that he can no longer be considered a “super striker”.
Werner, who has contributed 10 goals and nine assists to his London club, endured yet another painful match day when he drew another blank during the 1-1 draw with Southampton at the weekend.
Expectedly, Werner who knows that he has fallen short of expectations in his first few months at Stamford Bridge has not failed to acknowledge the physicality and intensity of the EPL National Daily gathered.
The former RB Leipzig forward who endured a 14-match goal drought prior to his goal against Newcastle on February 15 while speaking to Kicker, acknowledged his inconsistent start to life at Chelsea:
“At the beginning, I had this self-image that I can go on doing my thing here, but in the last few months I have been brought down to earth. It’s the way in England that you never have a quiet game.
“The players are 1.9 meters tall, brutal physically and really fast – including the defenders. It’s impressive what intensity is going on in the Premier League.”
Werner, when asked how he has dealt with his criticism explained that he only needed to take away the pressure of the goal droughts.
“Of course I noticed that in such a lull you are no longer necessarily called a super striker. I just had to let go of all the pressure of having to score goals.”

Meanwhile, the Germany international seems to be enjoying the trust of his new manager Thomas Tuchel perhaps because the former Paris Saint-Germain boss is not unaware of Werner’s quality.
 



Share this on WhatsApp