Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), has described the recent parade of innocent people, including women by the Nigerian Army as members of the Eastern Security Network, ESN as a huge joke.
In a statement issued by the Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB, he dismissed as false claims by the Nigeria military that those it arrested in Orlu during their operation were ESN operatives
The statement read, “We want to debunk the lies by the Nigeria military that those it arrested in Orlu during their genocidal raid and air strike last week are ESN operatives. It’s just unfortunate that the Janjaweed Nigeria Army which capitulates before rag-tag Boko Haram could curiously arrest innocent Biafran civilians at Orlu branding them ESN operatives.
“Till tomorrow, the Nigeria military should know that its poorly-trained troops are no match to the gallant and formidable ESN operatives. We are miles ahead of them, and can never be subdued by them. Their propaganda cannot work.
“We equally want to warn the Nigerian military to ensure nothing happens to the Jewish Rabbi Kelechi Nwachukwu and his family as well as other IPOB members they arrested out of frustration following their humiliation by the indomitable ESN operatives at Orlu.
“We must warn the Nigeria military as well as the Supreme Court Administrator in Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, to ensure that nothing happens to these IPOB members and 33 synagogue worshipers arrested in Orlu and paraded in the public as if they were criminals.
“Hope Uzodima should be ashamed of himself for masterminding the killing and persecution of his unarmed people at a time his fellow Northern Governors are openly negotiating with armed bandits and terrorists.
“While the Northern Leaders are busy facilitating amnesty for mass murderers, Hope Uzodinma and his fellow traitors in the South East are sponsoring the destruction of their own people. But these saboteurs and Fulani slaves in our land must reap the fruit of treachery!”
Share this on WhatsApp