Share this on WhatsApp




Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka on Thursday opened up on the alleged attack on his home in Abeokuta by suspected Fulani Herdsmen.

Recall that it was reported that the Herdsmen had gathered at his residence on Tuesday and allegedly fled when the police arrived.

Meanwhile, in a statement, the
police had on Wednesday debunked the rumoured attack, saying the Herdsmen didn’t attack the home of Soyinka as being reported.

However, in a statement on Thursday, Soyinka said though he was never attacked physically, but the herders and their cows did attacked his property.


Soyinka said the police needed to be very, very careful, learn to be straightforward with public information, saying failure to adhere to that obvious, basic form of conduct meant that the public would lose total confidence in security agencies and constantly by-pass them in times of civic unrest, no matter how trivial or deadly.


“How on earth could the police claim that my property was not invaded by cattle? It was. My groundsmen knew the drill and commenced the process of expelling them. Fortunately, I was then driving out and was able to lend a hand by vehicle maneuvering. Both cattle and herdsmen were flushed out of my property.

” Once they were outside the gates, I came down from the vehicle and beckoned the herdsmen to come over. At first they pretended not to understand, then, as I approached, fled into the bush. We thereupon “arrested” the cows, confining them to the roadside, while I sent my groundsman, Taiye, to the police to come and take over.

“Since they took rather long in responding, I summoned a replacement and proceeded to the police station. On the way, we met a detachment, turned round, and together we returned to the scene of crime. The police wanted to commence combing the bush for the fugitives but I stopped them – what was the point? Keep the cows, I advised, and the owner will show up. Of course, that owner eventually did,” he explained.


“I thoroughly resent the police version which suggests that the cows never invaded my home: home is not just a building, it includes its grounds. And it was not a stray cow, or two or three. It was a herd – we have photos, so why the lie? It is so unnecessary, unprofessional and suspiciously compromised. O

“The menace, I repeat, challenges us as a cohesive entity and as communities of free individuals, committed to the dignity of existence. Cattle imperialism under any guise is an obscenity to humanity. So let me serve notice that we are about to commence a process of public sensitization; we hope even the police will join hands with the agenda as it progresses, he added.












Share this on WhatsApp