Share this on WhatsApp

 


Prince Idris Balogun, one of the aspirants for Alimosho Federal constituency in All Progressive Congress party come 2023, perturbed by the trend of lingering clashes between Fulani Herdsmen and natives of various tribes across Nigeria with the attendant arson,displacements and colossal destruction of lives and properties, has called on the affected people especially those of Yoruba extractions to uphold their neighbourly virtues in the defence of their patrimony.


Prince Balogun made the call in a chat with newsmen in Lagos, stressing the need to preserve  strength inherent in our diversity.

“Since we are still one Nigeria, we can’t support disintegration,we still have something binding us together, Yoruba,Hausa, Igbo and others, wherever you go in South Africa, Cotonou and other climes you find us there, so we need thread with caution.

Two wrongs can never make a right, this life is give and take,those in Abuja who relied on the strong security networks there,should remember other areas loosely secured, the lives of whom are paramount.”

According to the Crown Prince of Isheri Kingdom, ( aka Oluomo), we should avoid any possibility where peaceful cohabitation will become a taboo,given the trend the insecurity challenge in the nation is taken daily.

He tasks the government of the day to live up to expectations, as their negligence gave rise to the resurgence of Chief Sunday Adeyemo (Igboho).

“People have been agitating for help for long, regarding Fulani herdsmen attacks coupled with the incessant killings,maiming,raping of hapless women,destruction of lives and properties, but what is government doing?

“This kind of security challenge need be handled as sensitive as it is,many Fulani Herdsmen had lived harmoniously with us for decades, so one wonders, why this is happening now?

“It is as a result of the negligence of our government that led Sunday Igboho to act. Our government swore to a oath to ensure the security of lives and properties as enshrined in our constitution, but what are they securing?

I see nothing,lots of complaints before now and no assistance from government.

” Let us provide a strong state police working in collaboration with our community policing architecture, you can even employ genuine Fulanis in the team to help Fish out the bad elements causing the mayhem.

“The same security system subsisting prior 1960’s, which has yielded no result  need a change, each community will then handle their areas, with knowledge of the nooks and crannies,  where the bad ones assembles for easy dismantling.” Said Prince Balogun.

He however, urged the Yoruba people to calm down and even when the need arises to breakaway, “it should be done without war. Peaceful cessation without loss of lives, they should stand on their right and be firm with it”.


Share this on WhatsApp