Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Former President Goodluck Jonathan may be battling with melting the ice of ideological Faultline over pressures from northern All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders to contest the 2023 presidential election. The pressures from the ruling APC compelled the reconciliation committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led by former President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, to pay an urgent visit to former President Jonathan, even when he was not involved in any crisis.
Saraki had after the meeting mildly or diplomatically revealed that the former president was being disturbed but he assured that the PDP is still the party for everyone.
Thereafter, there have been insinuations that the former Nigerian president has been considering the 2023 presidential race either on the APC or PDP platform; though, former President Jonathan is yet to make an official statement.
There are indications that former President Jonathan may be in dilemma of adhering to ideological belief and remain in the PDP or take advantage of opportunity being offered to pursue personal interest, and defect to the APC for the 2023 presidential ticket.
Inquiry by National Daily shows that remaining in PDP and resisting the temptation of contesting the 2023 presidential election for a second tenure could make former President Jonathan a greater hero of democracy, venerable nationalist and elder states man, and a reputable patriot.
Some stakeholders in the PDP were of the view that former President Jonathan has benefitted the best political fortunes the PDP has ever provided any member. They highlighted that Jonathan has been transformed from being the son of canoe maker in Bayelsa State to deputy governor of the state, then, governor; later vice president, acting president, substantive president, and an elected president of Nigeria. They added that his peaceful exit from office in 2015, subsequently, raised his profile to an international personality and significant global authority in peace building.
The stakeholders further pointed out that the power equation in the PDP is such that former President Jonathan may not be suitable to contest for president in 2023 on the party platform, acknowledging that, though, he is constitutionally qualified to run for a second tenure.
The stakeholders emphasized that the zoning agreement in the PDP requires giving the presidential to the north in the 2023 general elections after the 16 years of the PDP government 1999 to 2015 in which the south had the president for 13 years and the north 3 years. They noted that the party was reputable for internal justice, equity and liberalism while former President Jonathan was a principal beneficiary to become the President of Nigeria. they added that the former President may not have any delight in destroying the basic political values and party principles that brought him to stardom in Nigeria’s politics.
The PDP stakeholders, however, expressed the phobia that if the former president decides to defect to the APC, the action will have a devastating effect on the PDP. They feared some governors, lawmakers and other party leaders may join the former president to the APC. Details of this will be unveiled in subsequent reports.
The dilemma of the former president considering defection to the APC for the 2023 presidential ticket was considered self-betrayal of ideological Faultline and principles. Though, some stakeholders considered any move to APC a payback to all the people that betrayed former President Jonathan in the 2015 presidential election, particularly, in the PDP, including those southern APC leaders who created nonexistent enemies in the former president for the purpose of the 2015 presidential election. Some of those known to have worked against former President Jonathan in 2015 in the PDP are perceived to be dominating the party currently and seeking political fortunes on the party’s platform.
However, the stakeholders reiterated their fear that the 2015 sabotage and betrayal of the former president may not be ruled in 2023, urging the former president to be cautious in his decision.
The former president is, therefore, perceived to be in a dilemma of either remaining in the PDP and being a kingmaker or defecting to the APC to be made a king which he had been in the past.
Meanwhile, it was gathered that there appears to be a political undertone in the APC which northern APC leaders may be using Jonathan to fight latent regional battles in the ruling party. Again, National Daily will bring up details on this in subsequent reports.
Share this on WhatsApp