Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has directed his legal team to commence libel suit against SaharaReporters for false publication of offering N2 billion ‘bribe’ to secure tenure extension by President Muhammadu Buhari after his retirement date was due. The President had on return from Daura, Katsina State, where he went for the All Progressives Congress (APC) revalidation and registration exercise approved the extension of service of the IG who was due for retirement to three months.
The Police High Command on Monday refuted the  publication by Saharareporters alleging that the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, gave over N2 billion to secure the extension of his tenure by the president. The Police high Command in a statement on Monday by the Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, CP Frank Mba, described as “untrue, unfounded, defamatory and libellous, the publication by SaharaReporters, dated February 07, 2021, which alleged that the Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, paid over N2 billion for the tenure extension.”
The Police declared: “The Force wishes to state categorically that the extension of service of the IGP was strictly the prerogative of the President and was never paid for as maliciously reported in the publication.”
 
The Police also argued that “the insinuations by SaharaReporters that the IGP did not “celebrate” his extension is a smack of ignorance and a pathetic misplacement of priority.” The Nigeria Police noted that the extension does not call for merry-making or celebration but a time for more work, rededication to duty and selfless service to the nation.
 
The statement further indicated that the IGP, while assuring the nation of an unwavering commitment by the Force under his leadership to improved service delivery, safety and security of the citizenry, enjoined members of the public to disregard and discountenance the publication by SaharaReporters as evidently untrue and unfounded. “The IGP is undistracted and the Force remains motivated and committed to delivering on its mandate, especially, the task of neutralizing current and emerging internal security threats,” the statement further read.
 
It was indicated that the IGP has directed his legal team to commence legal actions against the online publishers.
Share this on WhatsApp