Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Nigerian presidency appears to have been thrown into confusion over the renewed #EndSARS protest at the Lekki Toll Gate, Lagos, on Saturday, particularly, on the instruction given to the Nigeria Police Force. The Nigerian government in conjunction with the Lagos State government had issued stern warning to Nigerian youths to eschew from engaging on second wave of #EndSARS protest at the Lekki Toll Gate, Lagos.
The police had threatened the Nigerian youths who dared to participate in the Saturday protest. However, governments threats and intimidations could not deter the Nigerian youths from staging the protest in Lagos.
People came out in hundreds at intervals.
The police swung into action, commenced arrest of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate, Lagos. Coincidentally, the #EndSARS protest was broadcast live on certain domestic and foreign media, including various social media platforms. Thus, there was no hiding place for tyranny or use of brutal force to obstruct the protest.
However, a popular comedian and activist, Debo Adebayo, popularly known as Macaroni, who had joined the peaceful protest at Lekki on Saturday was arrested by the police.
The protesters were agitating  against the decision of the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry to reopen the Lekki Toll Gate for business and hand over the facility to the Lekki Concession Company while proceedings were going on at the panel of inquiry and justice had not been done to victims of the October 20, 2020, shooting by the Nigerian Army at the toll plaza.
In the early arrests made by the police, the telephone of the victims was said to be confiscated by the police.
However, Mr. Macaroni retained his telephone handset while being taken away by the police. He, accordingly, went on live broadcast on the Instagram in the police van that was taking him away: “Na military regime?
“If na military, make we know sey na military, so make everybody dey hide.”
However, his telephone handset and those of other protesters with him were later confiscated by the police, which disrupted his Instagram Live session.
Later, a video clip was trending on social media showing Mr. Macaroni half-naked and sweating in a bus choked with other arrested protesters.
There was public notice – If you’re not joining to protest, at least retweet and let the whole world know about this #mrmacaroni #EndSARS #LekkiTollGateProtest #EndPoliceBrutality #BuhariMustGo
The message spread like wildfire.
Perhaps, being conscious that the world was watching the protest live, the governments in a seeming confusion charged Mr. Macaroni, other protesters arrested with him for flouting COVID-19 rules, whereas they were arrested for participating in the protest at Lekki Toll Gate.
The popular comedian, Debo Adebayo, Mr. Macaroni, was later granted bail with some other arrested protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate.
Share this on WhatsApp