Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Ogun State on Tuesday raised an alarm on the threats to lives and safety of students, posed by the activities of the Fulani herdsmen around campuses of tertiary institutions in the state.
The newly elected chairman of NANS in Ogun State, Com. Kehinde Damilola Simeon, who gave the advice on Tuesday while addressing newsmen in Abeokuta, the state capital, cited the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta and Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Ojere, Abeokuta as two of the institutions where the activities of herders pose grave risk to students and called on governor Dapo Abiodun to take urgent steps to ensure their safety.
He urged Abiodun to consider registration of all herdsmen within the borders of Ogun state and banning open grazing in the state.
The NANS state chairman also appealed to the Governor to fasttrack the inauguration of the Amotekun Corps in order to further combat insecurity around their campuses.
“We find it prudent to kick-start the first of the agenda of the students’ body which is Consultation on some lingering issues affecting the students’ constituency.
“Chief among this is the threat to the safety of Nigerian Students posed by Fulani Herdsmen activities around our campuses. Particularly, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta and Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Ojere, Abeokuta.
“We urge the state government to consider registration of all Herdsmen within the borders of Ogun state, ban open grazing and fastrack the inauguration of the Amotekun Corps in order to further combat insecurity around our campuses.
He also called on the Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho to consult stakeholders in the quest to ensure lasting peace in Yorubaland.
“We understand Igboho, but it is our view that he should meet with Yoruba leaders, Afenifere and other stakeholders. This has become important so as not to set the entire South-West region on fire and cause anarchy.
“We observe that Igboho’s strategy, if not, reviewed may lead to ethnic or tribal war. We therefore urge him to liaise with the appropriate authorities to avoid a major disaster,” he said.
He also appealed to the state government to increase funding for the education sector in accordance with the UNESCO recommendations as well as increase subventions for the running of activities of State-owned schools in order not to compel the institutions to pass the cost to the students through exorbitant charges.
Share this on WhatsApp