Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, on Tuesday decorated the recently promoted senior officer in the Nigerian Police Force with their new ranks. The newly promoted Deputy Inspectors General of Police being decorated at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, by the IG include DIG Tijani Baba, DIG Zanna Mohammed Ibrahim, and DIG Moses A. Jitoboh. The Force Public Relations Officer Force Headquarters
Abuja, CP Frank Mba, in a statement on Tuesday indicated that their promotion and subsequent decoration became necessary following the retirement of erstwhile DIGs from their respective geo-political zones. The elevation of the Senior Officers is in acting capacity, he said.
The new DIGs were also posted to their new departments and directorates as follows:


DIG Tijani Baba – Directorate of Force Intelligence Bureau
DIG Zanna Mohammed Ibrahim – Department of Logistics and Supply

DIG Moses A. Jitoboh – Department of Research and Planning.

Mba highlighted that before their elevation to the new rank, DIG Tijani Baba was the AIG in charge, Zones 9 Umuahia, 12 Bauchi, 7 Abuja and 8 Lokoja, respectively. He had also served as CP Special Protection Unit (SPU), CP Federal Operations and CP Zamfara State, respectively. DIG Zanna M. Ibrahim, was, until recently, the Commandant, Nigeria Police Academy Wudil, Kano. An alumnus of the prestigious National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) Kuru, Jos, DIG Zanna was, at various times, Commissioner of Police, Zamfara, Delta and Yobe State Commands. He was also CP Info-Tech, as well as the Director Peace Keeping Operations, Force Headquarters Abuja, amongst others. Similarly, DIG Moses A. Jitoboh, a proud alumnus of NIPSS, was AIG in charge, Border Patrol, Force Headquarters, Abuja. He was also AIG in charge Zone 8 Headquarters, Lokoja, AIG Investment, Force Headquarters, Abuja and Commissioner of Police Adamawa State Police Command. An officer with huge experience in VIP protection, DIG Jitoboh was once the Chief Personal Security Officer (CPSO) to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Mba highlighted.
The IGP, while congratulating the trio on their elevation, enjoined them to justify the confidence reposed in them by the Police Service Commission and the Federal Government of Nigeria by rendering selfless services to the nation.
Share this on WhatsApp