Share this on WhatsApp






 


It has been glory moments at Stamford Bridge since the arrival of Thomas Tuchel less than a month ago after the sack of Frank Lampard.
The German who is gearing up up for the visit of Newcastle United on Monday night has spoken candidly live on Sky Sports about his approach to management
The former Borussia Dortmund boss has revealed that he will prioritise honesty over making friends, while always maintaining a degree of unpredictability National Daily gathered.
“Just because I’m trying hard to be kind to you guys [the media], does not mean that I am trying too hard and that everybody loves me in the dressing room because this simply does not exist,” Tuchel said.
“It is not necessary. But, in a moment where I am happy I can tell them also that I am happy with their attitude, their performance and the atmosphere in the dressing room. There is no harm in that, I don’t hold it back then.
“Can I be a shouter? Yeah, of course, if it’s absolutely necessary. But I can be totally emotional, and I can also totally be a shouter if I feel this is the minute to do it and to surprise. If you do it all the time then no one would listen because it becomes a habit, so everybody gets used to it.
“The goal is also to stay a little bit unpredictable, and most of the time to be reasonable because, for me, it is important we build a trust and relationship that we can rely on.
“Player’s won’t get punished, shouted at or insulted in front of a group, this is unacceptable. But if we have to point out things clearly I’m a big friend of doing it in front of the whole group.
“If we have behaviours that harm the group and cause trouble for the team on the pitch, we should tell the players individually, but I believe strongly that everybody has to have the personality to swallow criticism in front of the group.
“That way no harm is done because we can talk openly. To be clear and to be honest, this will never change. I don’t do stuff to be loved by everyone in the dressing room, this is not possible.”
It is important to note that Tuchel and Chelsea have enjoyed massive 10 points from the possible  12 points in the EPL since his inception as Chelsea boss.
 
 






Share this on WhatsApp