Share this on WhatsApp





The Committee Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Membership Registration in Lagos, Dr Mohammed Bashir, on Monday urged the party’s stakeholders in the state to cooperate with the committee so as to achieve success in the membership registration exercise which would start on the 9th of February.

 


Bashir said this at the party’s secretariat at Acme in Ikeja-Lagos, while addressing the Stakeholders ahead of the commencement of the exercise.
He added that the registration exercise was a national assignment which must not fail, saying that it was to bring into the fold new members who had interest in joining the party from the grassroot.
Bashir charged the stakeholders to do the right thing by mobilising interested people in their various wards and local governments to register with the party, adding that all efforts should be geared towards the success of the exercise.
” This is not the period for egoism or interest clash but the period to mobilise members for our great party. This is the period to show that you have the interest of the APC at heart. This is not election, it is registration of members and it should not be seen as do or die affair.
” We will ensure due process is followed during the exercise because the interest of the party supersedes the interest of an individual.
” APC has its root from Lagos and we will treat all stakeholders equally and fairly. The rules and guidelines will be dictated by this registration committee and we will need the stakeholders to guide us in the various wards and local governments “, said Bashir.
However,  Hon. James Faleke (Ikeja Federal Constituency) queried why existing party members should be asked to re-register instead of revalidating their membership, citing the re-registering of President Muhammadu Buhari.
Faleke said column for revalidation of existing members was missing on the party’s membership registration form, saying that there should be provision for revalidation.
Also, a Lagos State House of Assembly member, Hon. Jude Idimogwu, urged the committee to ensure that non-indiegenes were given sense of belonging during the exercise, saying that Igbos and Hausas formed a bulk of votes in the state.
Earlier, the Lagos APC Caretaker Chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, assured stakeholders of seamless, transparent and all inclusive registration exercise.
Balogun said that there had been apprehension from the members on how the exercise would go, saying that it had brought some controversies within the party.
” I can assure you that nobody will be sidelined. I assure that no stakeholder or member will be denied to participate in the exercise”, said Balogun.
He urged those who wants to join APC from other political parties to utilise the opportunity created by the registration exercise to register with it.
Some of the stakeholders present are; Lagos APC Caretaker Chairman,  Alhaji Tunde Balogun, Caretaker Secretary, Hon. Lanre Ogunyemi, Caretaker Assistant Publicity Secretary, Hon. Abiodun Salami, Rep. James Faleke, Rep. Ganiyu Johnson, Rep. Jimi Benson and Rep. Bashiru Dawodu.
Others include; Hon. Gbolahon Yishawu, Hon. Nurudeen Saka-Solaja, Hon. Suraju Tijani, Hon. Jude Idimogwu, Hon. Sentoji David, Hon. Wale Rauf, and Hon. Fatai Mojeed.
The Chairperson of Conference 57 and Chairman, Lagos Mainland local government, Hon. Omolola Essien led the council chairmen to the meeting.





Share this on WhatsApp