Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
A frontline leader of the movement for Oduduwa sovereign state, Sunday Igboho, on Friday escaped a purported ambush by a team of 40 security operatives comprising of officers of the Department of Security Service (DSS). Nigerian Army and the Police, along Lagos/Ibadan expressway on his way to Lagos. The team was alleged to have laid ambush on the Oduduwa activist to effect his arrest but failed.
Femi Fani-Kayode revealed the failed ambush and arrest, warned against the dangers of intimidating, harassing and violent plots against Sunday Igboho.
Femi Fani-Kayode in a statement on Friday afternoon declared: “I just spoke to my brother, Sunday Igboho. He told me there was a violent attempt to arrest him this afternoon by a joint team of soldiers, DSS operatives and policemen numbering about 40 on the Ibadan/Lagos Expressway whilst he was on his way to see Baba Ayo Adebanjo in Lagos.”
FFK, therefore, expressed his condemnation of the attempt to ambush and abduct Sunday Igboho. Fani-Kayode cautioned: “It is not only reckless but also very dangerous.
“If the security agencies want to see him, all they need to do is to invite him to their office.
“I am not aware of any crime that he has committed, and I urge restraint on all sides.
“Let me also send a warning to the FG that Sunday Igboho is a hero to millions of Yorubas and either killing him or detaining him unlawfully would be the biggest mistake they could make.”
Fani-Kayode stated that building bridges, dialogue and the pursuit of peace is better than intimidation, threats, violence, and war.
“A word is enough for the wise,” he declared.
Sunday Igboho had after issuance of quit order to killer Fulani herdsmen in Yoruba land, led his team to Ibarapa, Oyo State, to chase the Fulani residents in the area from the state, including the Seriki Fulani, who was accused of purportedly aiding and encouraging kidnapping in the state. Igboho subsequently led similar movement to Ogun State.
There was order was Abuja for immediate  arrest of Sunday Igboho after the Ibarapa incident but prominent Yoruba leaders challenged the order, including reputable legal practitioners and Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN) who volunteered free legal services for Igboho if arrested by the Nigerian government.
Share this on WhatsApp