Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has stepped up measures towards protecting telecom consumers by tightening the noose against cases of data depletion and wrong deductions of consumers’ credit through an ongoing forensic audit instituted by the Commission to ensure maximum protection for consumers.
This disclosure was made by the Executive Vice Chairman of the NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, when he received the Man of the Year 2020 Award from MoneyReport magazine recently in Abuja.
According to Prof Danbatta, consumer protection remains a key focus area of the Commission’s regulatory activities.
The ongoing forensic audit, the Commission plans “to get to the bottom of why consumers are experiencing data depletion and the possibility of compensating them for wrong deductions, which may arise from short message service (SMS).
“We have instituted and we have insisted that despite the fall in data price, that forensic audit must go on and must be concluded and the outcome communicated to the CEOs of telecom companies.
He said the Commission has developed Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on data depletion, which are designed to inform consumers on activities that may result in faster depletion of their data as well as enlighten them on measures to mitigate such.
It is to be noted that NCC has been passionate about protecting the consumers through sustained awareness creation and education on consumer rights and privileges.
The introduction of Do-Not-Disturb (DND) has helped over 30 million consumers to block unsolicited text messages on their phones while stern regulatory actions are constantly taken by the regulator against any operator that prevents a consumer from subscribing to the DND service.
The Commission launched the 622 Toll-free Number, which consumers can use to lodge and escalate service-related complaints to the Commission for resolution, stating that thousands of complaints have been successfully resolved since its introduction.
Quite a number of subscribers have been on the receiving end and complained seriously of how their data and credit are depleted as they are recharged.
The development calls for a thorough investigation by the regulators to ensure that consumers are not short-changed and that they receive value for their money.
 
Share this on WhatsApp