Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, at the weekend in Kano, condemned the renewed Lekki protest in Lagos, saying Nigeria will not be governed the way some people want. Invariably, the minister had covertly declared that Nigeria will be governed the way people in government want in disregard of the populist expectations.
The Defence Minister in Kano for the APC membership revalidation had declared that the Buhari administration will not be governed the way some people want it.
Magashi had declared: “If some people are seeing this country, that it has to be governed the way they want, they are mistaken.
“We are not elected to serve a particular people. We were elected to serve this country. Whoever is involved in this thing, the military or the government will not allow it to happen.
“Our interest is to ensure that there is peace and security in this country and that economic activities and social life of people are restored. That is our purpose. Whatever is happening here and there is an opinion of the government.”
Unfortunately, the defence minister over the years has not explained the inability of the Nigerian Army and other security operatives to tackle the violent crimes of bandits in the northwest, Boko Haram in the northeast and rampaging Fulani herdsmen across the country. The federal government under the Buhari administration appears to be tolerant of all these and considers unarmed peaceful protesters worse criminals than those operating with sophisticated weapons.
The minister also expressed support for amnesty for bandits and others, saying the rejection of amnesty of Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State is contrary to international statutes.
“If Kaduna State does not want to give amnesty to the people, please advise him that there is an international law stating what to be done and how it is done.
“We just don’t do things in isolation. We are part of the world. There are international laws and regulations that must be complied with in dealing with these situations,” the defence minister declared.
Share this on WhatsApp