Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The former Governor of Ekiti State, Engr.  Segun Oni, on Monday declared his interest for the 2022 governorship election in the state on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Oni, opening his campaign office captioned: “PDP family edifice,” revealed that preparations for the 2022 election has commenced.
Oni, who was former Deputy National Chairman (South) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) before his defection to PDP, assured that the PDP would work with the people of Ekiti State. The governorship aspirant further expressed his readiness to work with former Governor Ayodele Fayose, Sen. Biodun Olujimi and PDP other leaders, to reposition the party and make it formidable for the 2022 governorship election and achieve victory for the party.
Oni was cited to have declared: “I have been in politics for long and I understand the importance of unity. Let all leaders play their roles. Politics is a team game.
“As for me, I am not going to engage in names calling.”
Oni explained that he chose to name his campaign office, “PDP family edifice” to convey the sign that politics should not be perceived as an acrimony, an enmity and something meant for character assassination.
“We want to tell Nigerians that there is a new formula in town, which is the formula of friendship, unity and oneness. I don’t believe in character assassination and exclusion; it is good for all of us to be together. “Except the parameters change, I am interested in the governorship. Though, only God knows tomorrow; but as of now yes, I am contesting and we are projecting that God will sanction it”. He said that Ekiti PDP was not afraid of the power of incumbency. “At a time in history, Nigeria was being controlled by the PDP. But Nigerians changed their minds and voted for APC in 2015. “If you look at the mood in town now, the people have changed their minds going by what they are saying in town. “People are not inclined to have APC after the next expiry date in 2022 in Ekiti, that is, after Gov. Fayemi.
“No government is undefeatable. President Donald Trump wanted to conquer America. He introduced Mafian styles, thinking that he could not be defeated. Where is he today? He is in Florida in retirement. That is the power of the people. “Politicians should be able to subject themselves to the will of the people so that we won’t destroy the system.’’ He said that if democracy had not been disrupted with the military coup of 1966, Nigeria would have been be better for it now. ” All of us must subject to the will of the masses. No one should think he can perpetuate himself in power. “In the Ekiti governorship poll, I won’t advise anybody to do anything funny, that won’t be in the best interest of anyone,” the former governor was cited to have said.
Share this on WhatsApp