Share this on WhatsApp
 


The Executive Chairperson of Etsako East Local Government Council, Edo State, Princess Benedicta Ebuehi, has raised alarm over monumental fraud in revenue collection for self-enrichment by officials of the council.
The chairperson in a statement narrated that she led a team in the company of some members of the Etsako East Economic Team on a revenue drive at Agenebode, noting that the result was an eye-opener in two ways! “It showed and confirmed what we can achieve through collections when those saddled with the responsibilities of driving the process are true and give unto Caesar what is Caesar’s. “Unfortunately, that is not the case…,” she lamented.
Princess Ebuehi decried that the level of pilfering, malfeasance in the LG revenue department shook her to the core; making her tremble long after she got home. “Trembling not from the physical exertion, but from the realisation of how much the Local Government has lost to officials who collect only to enrich themselves,” she said.
Princess Ebuehi, therefore, declared that as a consequence, the Deputy Head of Department, Revenue, who is neck-deep in this sleaze has been suspended from all revenue collection activities, pending full scale and on-going investigation. She added that all members of the Revenue Collection Unit have been redeployed with immediate effect. The chairman added that the HOS Revenue has been transferred out of the Local Government.
The chairperson highlighted: “The leadership of the Local Government, in collaboration with the Economic Team, will put in place measures and processes that would mitigate such underhand dealings.
“Part of this would entail establishing a “Revenue Collection Monitoring Volunteer Corp” that would act as checks and control on collecting local government funds to ensure probity.
“The Corp is voluntary and won’t be remunerated. We will notify you of progress.”
She, therefore, declared: “I wish to state that the exercise carried out in Agenebode and the environs will be replicated in Weppa, Okpella and North Ibie.
“As a Government, we are determined to ensure leakages are plugged as the whole drive for revenue mobilization entails revenue entrapment and leakages elimination.
“We will progressively inform you of our renewed drive to making Etsako East economically viable and one that would work for all.”
Share this on WhatsApp