Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Bandits have continued to worsen the insecurity crisis in the northwest Nigeria, ravaging communities in several states with impunity. A gang of bandits on Wednesday struck in some communities in three local governments namely Giwa, Chikun and Igabi local government areas in Kaduna State killing over 18 persons.
The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs in Kaduna State, Samuel Aruwan, in a statement on Wednesday, indicated that the three local government areas have been under constant attacks by bandits in recent time.
The commissioner narrated that the bandits attacked Anaba village in Igabi Local Government Area where they killed seven persons. The victims were identified as Ali Musa, Isa Sharehu, Tijjani Isa, Auwalu Shehu, Hashim Abdullahi, Hassan Saidu and Umar Rilwanu.
The bandits also burnt several residential houses in the community, including stores and barns. They bandits further rustled over 20 cows in the operation.
The bandits subsequently struck in Barinje community in Chikun Local Government Area where they killed eight, who were identified to include Sunday Gwamna, Lawal Jizo, Salha Barau, Sabo Barau, Umaru Barau, Muhammadu Dan Azumi, Zailani Dogara and Jikan Gambo.
Several indigenes of the community were said to be kidnapped by the bandits. They also rustled some cattle in the operation. Many were said to be injured by the bandits  and are receiving medical treatment in hospitals.
Bandits moved into further operations to invade neighbouring communities which include Kwarten Rigasa, Kwarten Waziri and Kwarten Shaku in Igabi Local Government Area.
The bandits were perceived to come from the Buruku area, raiding the communities, rustling cattle and killing one person – Danjuma Isa – from neighboring Ungwan Kanti community while he was trekking to Kwarten Rigasa.
The bandits in their violent rampage, struck in Sanhu Makera community, Birnin Yero of Igabi Local Government Area, killed one man, Yakubu Abdullahi, a farmer. Another person was identified to have been killed by unknown gunmen at the Ministerial Pilot Housing Estate, Millennium City, Chikun Local Government Area.
The commissioner said that the airstrike operations of the security agencies in the state compelled the bandits to resort to striking in soft spots at Anaba and Barinje villages in Igabi and Chikun LGAs.
Aruwan narrated that air platforms had earlier conducted armed reconnaissance around Anaba village during which the crew observed houses on fire and locals migrating to nearby settlements.
The commissioner also said that many bandits on motorcycles were neutralised by troops at Kankomi village and neighbouring communities, including Kuyanbana forest, noting that many of the bandits escaped with bullet wounds.
Security agencies have appealed to residents of the communities to report anyone found with bullet wounds to the Security Operations Room.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp