Share this on WhatsApp






 


Manchester United spent majority of last summer transfer window courting Jadon Sancho to Old Trafford until the transfer finally fell through when United were unable to meet the artificial transfer deadline as initiated by Borussia Dortmund.
While many United fans have  criticized Ed Woodward’s inability to tidy the deal, some others have praised his ability of not allowing himself of being held ransom by the Bundesliga giant; a resolve that may have made a shrewd transfer decision.
National Daily gathered from the available indications that Manchester United might be able to get their hands on Jadon Sancho after all – and for a cut price transfer fee.
 
The Bundesliga giants slapped a deadline and a minimum fee on Sancho but neither were met by United.
And when the club tried to offer post-deadline, Dortmund rejected all advances and closed off negotiations National Daily can recall.
Dortmund’s action was seen to have forced the Old Trafford club to bring in youngsters Facundo Pellistri and Amad late on in the transfer window – but with both wingers aged 18 it remains to be seen when they will play a major role in the first team.
Sadly for United, the right-wing position still remains an issue for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer as Daniel James has been unable to lockdown a place in the starting XI and looks more comfortable when cutting in from the left anyway.
Though Mason Greenwood has often been deployed there but the youngster is rather viewed as a central striker in the future.
The above scenarios mean that United may still have the need for Sancho to complete their frontline.
An adventure that may have received a major boost to their transfer hopes.
Interesting for United, National Daily understands that the fee for Sancho may now be reduced significantly. While Dortmund would accept no less than £105million for Sancho last summer,United were willing to pay no more than £80m.
But, according to Eurosport, due to Sancho’s poor start to the season and Dortmund’s financial constraints, the fee could now be as low as £50m.
 
Sadly for Dortmund, the Covid pandemic has hit the Signal Iduna Park side hard and they have already reported a £22.8m loss in the first half of the financial year.
And more agonizingly, Dortmund’s poor current form may heap more financial misery on them if they end up missing out on Champions League places; a situation that will make it almost impossible for the club to keep Sancho and in addition with Erling Haaland.
And should United indeed able to land Sancho for only £50m then Ed Woodward and United’s decision to hold firm last summer and not pay over the odds will be looked upon as a shrewd one.






Share this on WhatsApp