Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Director General of Bayelsa state Governor’s Cup Championship, Ono Akpe, has commended Baraza Cooperative Society and Exosports for boosting sports development in the state.
Akpe who gave the commendation at the just concluded Baraza Champions of Champions Wrestling Competition, and the sponsorship of jerseys for Bayelsa United, by Exosports, also thanked governor of the state, Douye Diri, for providing enabling environment for sporting activities to flourish in the state through the government/private partnership initiative.
According to him, the recent support from the private sector was an indication that sports would receive massive support under the Diri administration.
“We keep saying it that the government cannot do it alone, especially in sports development, private organisations and well-meaning Bayelsans should also come in, or if possible invest in Sports, since it has become one of the most lucrative careers in the world”.
Ono Akpe who congratulated the Sports Commissioner and President of the Nigerian Wrestling Federation, Hon. Daniel Igali, over the success of the Baraza Champions of Champions Wrestling tournament held in Yenagoa, equally lauded the contributions of the Chief Executive Officer, Baraza, Miebi Bribena towards the feat.
“Arch Miebi Bribena has shown the way to other sports lovers and philanthropists with his sponsorship of the wrestling tournament. This is indeed highly commendable.”
On the branding of Bayelsa United jerseys for the forthcoming season by Exosports, Mr Akpe praised the CEO, Mr Luper Anaka for the move, describing him as a true sports lover and an advocate for sports development.
“For me these persons have done very well, supporting the wrestling championship and branding jerseys for Bayelsa United, is highly commendable”.
“All I can say is they are truly sports lovers, and others should learn to key into their vision, for sports to grow in Bayelsa. We have abundant talents in Bayelsa, what we need is the support”.
The Director General, also added that the Governor’s Cup ,  which will be known as the ‘Prosperity Cup 2021’, would soon commence, calling on all communities, teams and players to get ready for the this year’s edition, which according to him, would be better, going by the number of stakeholders willing to support the competition.
Share this on WhatsApp