Share this on WhatsApp
 


 





Manchester City have gradually succeeded in building a reputation for themselves as formidable football club especially domestically.
The Manchester club who are presently almost running away with the 2020/2021 EPL title have won the Premier League six times, the FA Cup six times, the EFL Cup seven times, the Community Shield / Charity Shield six times, and the European Cup Winners’ Cup once.
In 2019 alone, Manchester City won four trophies, completing an unprecedented sweep of all domestic trophies in England and becoming the first English men’s team to win the domestic treble National Daily can confirm.
However, the success story of the Etihad club especially at the recent era cannot be told without a mention of Sergio Aguero who has remained pivotal to the club’s attacking force.
National Daily gathered that the 32-year-old Argentine, who prides himself as the most prolific foreign signing in Premier League history, admitted recently that he is unsure what the future holds.
The uncertainty over the future of Aguero who has just four months left on his contract at Manchester City is set to linger until the end of the season especially as the player has only started just four matches in 11 months for City due his lingering knee problems.
Strangely, Aguero who has been an unused substitute in City’s last two games has not scored a Premier League goal since January last season and he has sadly cast doubts over his future at the Etihad.
‘I don’t know what’s going to happen,’ he said. ‘The first thing that I want to do is play football. Once I start playing, then I will see what decision I have to take.
‘I don’t know where I am going to go at the end of the year. I don’t have an idea. I hope that I can continue (playing) for a few more years.’
A number of top strikers like Borussia Dortmund’s Erling Haaland, Tottenham;s Harry Kane and Inter Milan’s Romelu Lukaku have been linked to the Etihad stadium.
And while a possible departure of Aguero from the Etihad may be disappointing to the City fans; it may be a solace to the rival clubs who have suffered the nightmare of the Argentine’s attacking prowess.
 






Share this on WhatsApp