Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
The Federal Government has announced that the Third Mainland Bridge will no longer be opened on Monday, February 15, 2021, the earlier scheduled completion date for the rehabilitation works.
It can be recalled that the Federal Government announced the partial shutdown of the Third Mainland Bridge for 6 months on July 24 for another round of rehabilitation works.
This was extended by an extra one month due to disruption caused by the #EndSARS protests last year, when the re-opening date moved to February 15, 2021.
The Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Mr Olukayode Popoola who disclosed this said that the bridge would not be opened on Monday but at the end of February, as it would undergo one more total closure from February 19 to February 21 before completion of the project for the final re-opening by the end of February.
In his statement, Popoola said, “Third Mainland Bridge will no longer be opened on the 15th of February 2021 as announced earlier on.
“In order not to create untold hardship for the motoring public using the Third Mainland Bridge for their daily activities, the contractor is not allowed to close the Third Mainland Bridge during the week to cast concrete. Lane markings on the completed section must be completed. The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing regrets the inconveniences the extra days may have caused the Lagosians.”
“We are looking at the end of the month for the reopening of the bridge. That is the end of this February.
“They will cast concrete on the last expansion joint next weekend. We are not allowed to cast during the week so that the traffic will not be too much for people going to work. They will cast next weekend and after casting, we need about three or four days to do post-tensioning. That is why we are looking at the end of February.
“Casting will be done next weekend for the last expansion joint, it will require total closure of the bridge next weekend just to prevent vibration. So if we close the bridge Friday night, then we cast on Saturday by Sunday we will open it. That will be the last total closure to fix the last expansion joint.”
Traffic was partially diverted on a stretch of 3.5km where construction was ongoing between Adeniji Adeniji Ramp and Ebute Meta, while different time belts were allotted for traffic diversions on the bridge.
Share this on WhatsApp