Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, former Minister of Finance in Nigeria, on Monday takes up new global responsibility as the World Trade Organisation (WTO) finally confirmed her appointment   as the Director-General of the global trade regulator.
Okonjo-Iweala emerged the first woman and the first African to become the DG of the WTO. Her appointment terms indicate that she is expected to resume duty on March 1, 2021, while the tenure ends on August 31, 2025, but is renewable for a second term.
General Council Chair, David Walker of New Zealand, who in collaboration with other facilitators, namely, Amb. Dacio Castillo (Honduras) and Amb. Harald Aspelund (Iceland), coordinated the nine-month DG selection process. According to Walker, “This is a very significant moment for the WTO.”
Walker further declared: “On behalf of the General Council, I extend our warmest congratulations to Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala on her appointment as the WTO’s next Director-General and formally welcome her to this General Council meeting.
“Dr Ngozi, on behalf of all members, I wish to sincerely thank you for your graciousness in these exceptional months, and for your patience. We look forward to collaborating closely with you, Dr Ngozi, and I am certain that all members will work with you constructively during your tenure as Director-General to shape the future of this organization.”
Dr. Okonjo-Iweala was quoted in a WTO statement to have said that a key priority for her would be to work with members to quickly address the economic and health consequences brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic.
“I am honoured to have been selected by WTO members as WTO Director-General,” Okonjo-Iweala said. “A strong WTO is vital if we are to recover fully and rapidly from the devastation wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic. I look forward to working with members to shape and implement the policy responses we need to get the global economy going again. Our organization faces a great many challenges but working together we can collectively make the WTO stronger, more agile and better adapted to the realities of today.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp