Share this on WhatsApp














The era of Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as new Director General of World Trade Organisation(WTO), will end Trade wars, Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir the Director General of Manufacturer Association of Nigeria (MAN) has unequivocally declared.

Ajayi-Kadir made this assertion in his reaction to the emergence of Okonjo-Iweala headship of the WTO, according to him frosty relationships that exist between world powers will be tackled headlong by her owing to her expertise and experience.


“There is no doubt that the WTO is in need of major reforms. So the experience and expertise Okonjo-Iweala is bringing to the Organisation will provide the needed guidance to forge the reforms. She has real  ands-on experience in the field, both at National and international levels.

He counseled Okonjo-Iweala to use her new office to urgently address the intractable trade wars among leading economies and ensure free flow of goods,especially protective gears drugs and vaccines to halt further spread of COVID-19 pandemic.

“She needs to contend with and find solutions to the seemingly intractable trade wars among the leading world economies, while ensuring fairness for the less developed and underdeveloped ones.


An elated Ajayi-Kadir in what appears an agenda setting while for the new WTO head,cited the fact that the new feat of the Okonjo-Iweala is topical in that she is the first African and first female Director-General of the international body in its 25-year history!

“As you are aware, the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (AfCFTA) which will cover a market of 1.2 billion people and a gross domestic product (GDP) of more that $3 trillion would need the support of her expertise for a smooth take-off and steady success as a huge component of the world economy.

He added that a fair deal awaits the African continent due to the new development, upon which better leverage can be explored.

“While not guaranteeing unmerited advantages  and disproportionate treatment, having an African at the helm of affairs in the WTO should give some comfort of understanding and assuage the noticeable anxieties of African countries in the world trade parlance.

“If you like, it may embolden the exploits of African nations when striking deals with the rest of the world.

“So a lot of work awaits her. There has to be substantial changes in deciding and enforcing the rules of global trade.

“The blow dealt by Trump in refusing the appointment of new judges has handicapped its appellate system and ability to settle disputes. Being a consensus driven system, rules that require members’ approval were easily thwarted.

“Okonjo-Iweala will have to immediately ensure ease of the flow of goods, particularly protective gear, drugs and vaccines, etc to fight the COVID-19 Pandemic.

“So she needs to sort out the so called vaccine nationalism and negotiate the flow of this viral medicament to reach all nations, including the poorer ones.


“This is a plus for our country in the international community and a welcome development for Africa, with the onset of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement.

“There is also an international dimension to this. As you are aware, President Trump was vehemently against her candidacy.


“So her emergence is one of the gains of the defeat of Trump. And for President Biden, the fact that we have Okonjo-Iweala as the DG of the WTO today represents a distinguishing trade policy from the Trump era and  a fulfillment of his promise to revive international cooperation.


“I congratulate Mr. President for this feat and commend him for the dogged support he rallied for her.” Said Ajayi-Kadir.















Share this on WhatsApp