Share this on WhatsApp



The Lagos State Executive Committee of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)has call on former Governor Ayodele Fayose to leave the party, alleging his activities inimical to party’s fortune ahead of 2023 elections.

The committee urge the National Working Committee to disregard any parley with the erstwhile Ekiti State Governor,  whom they note working against the organization of zonal congresses scheduled for 6th of March 2021, stressing that it should not give room for unscrupulous elements to sabotage genuine attempts to rejig the party structure.

At a media parley held in the Lagos PDP secretariat on Friday, the committee maintained that the southwest zone is very crucial to 2023 election outings and firm decisions need be taken now to assert the functionality of the party.

The State Legal Adviser, Muyideen Tejumade in a statement notes that the press chat is basically to state the resolve of the committee to support the National Working Committee for the slated zonal congresses amongst which southwest own is key.

He noted that the sinister moves to destabilise the party in the region should be frontally tackled and discouraged, citing the need for them to dissociate themselves from the former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayodele Fayose, who allegedly has been the brain behind most of the crisis that rocked PDP’s political fortunes in times past.

” It is an open fact that a fellow who our party made had come out more often to say that he worked against the party, when our party fielded Engineer Segun Oni as the Governorship candidate of Ekiti State, a fellow who has been threatening to work against the productive Governor of Oyo State Engineer Seyi Makinde in 2023 General Election.

“We make bold to say that His Excellency, Engineer Seyi Makinde, Engineer Segun Oni was a symbol of the party while flagging our party ticket and any other person flagging our party ticket is an ambassador of our party, hence anyone suspected or found wanting to have worked against them is worked against the party.

“He must therefore be considered inconsequential in all its ramifications.

The statement also made a trajectory of the roles of Fayose in fueling trouble and crisis within the party, right from the Senator Ali Modu Sheriff and Senator Makarfi and even Engineer Segun Oni era and when consequences comes he is nowhere to be found, so he should be discountenanced.

“Posterity will not forgive us if we allow another Armageddon to befall our party. Southwest zone is a very crucial to our election outings in 2023.

” We also stand by the decision of the National Working Committee who have the constitutional responsibility to fix date and venue for congresses, and has fixed Oyo State as the venue, while 6th March, 2021 as the date.

“We are calling on the National Committee of our great party to stand firm against the few impostors, who have decided to use the Judiciary to draw the party backward; while we reinstate our readiness in the Southwest PDP to have a congress that will produce the zonal executives that are acceptable to the majority of the people of the Southwest.”

David Kolawole one of PDP National Ex Officio Southwest also reiterated the stand of the committee, noting that the inordinate ambitions of  scavengers in the party hinders progress in the party.

“Rescuing PDP is key now,people are suffering and young ones with the needed drive to change things politically need be given a virile platform to pursue their dreams.

“So we must sniff out some of the bad people’s selling us out to the opposition,I urge for cooperation amidst PDP, Southwest zonal election is the starting point,any faction not ready to accept Ibadan in Oyo State as the venue for our congress is not for us,we must restore sanity back to our party”.

The PDP Lagos Central Senatorial vice Chairman, Alhaji Segun Sowole, was quick to add that former Governor Fayose should be treated with.

It is unfortunate that we have people like that still in our party,I don’t see him as a member of this party.

While he was there as the Governor of Ekiti State nobody dare talk to him like he is talking today to somebody already made by God, in the person of Governor Seyi Makinde od Oyo State, our party’s constitution is clear, it state that whoever is the Governor in Southwest automatically becomes the leader of the party.

So I don’t know the problem that Fayose had. When he was there as a Governor,the leadership of the party were never respected,the National Working that he is now romancing never dare not talk to him.

He has bastardized Ekiti state,so for him to come to Lagos, to come and supervise,he is a mole in the party.






Share this on WhatsApp