Share this on WhatsAppLuis Figo doesn’t believe Manchester United’s Bruno Fernandez is a top player.

One of the greatest portugal footballers of all time. Until Cristiano Ronaldo emerged, many never thought any player from that axis would be greater than Luis Figo.

Figo who was so good he played for Barcelona and Real Madrid says, “I think Manchester united People should slow a bit on Bruno Fernandes, He is good, but not yet a top Player as claimed. Portuguese people are also a bit Confused about Bruno being on headlines in England for being top top Player.”

You may want to agree with Figo. Knowing how the English Media and the press machinery covering the EPL could be so loud. And how they know how to praise their league’s players especially English legs.

A typical example is how they praised Eden Hazard to the heavens and back. Today in the Spanish la Liga. The former Chelea playmaker hasn’t been able to prove the same worth.

“He is good, not top. We have top Portuguese like Bernardo Silva, Jota, etc before Bruno, they are also playing in England. We Portuguese people love Bruno, but here we don’t accept to see our Players being praised for things that they are yet to be. Bruno is not yet there and I have every right to protect his mindset not to be carried away by these sudden appraisals, I talked with him, I tell him you know once you start getting all praises from Portuguese citizens then you must know now you are getting near to be a complete Player.”

Figo went on to say Bruno knows it very well, and adds that he can see “he is getting his socks up although He still struggles against England big Clubs. He needs to get a big Trophy to be praised in Portugal, not from the bench but he must play a big part in getting that big Trophy. For now Silva is ahead of him. For Example look Joa Felix is playing a big part in Atletico trying to win la liga but you won’t see him on headlines for doing that in Spain, because he hasn’t won anything to deserve such applauds. We do it the Portuguese way. Not the English way, where you get praised for achieving absolutely nothing. This how we motivate our players to be on top of the world. Ask Cristiano Ronaldo he knows “

In all this, I think it’s also very safe to say the current Portugal squad is solid. They look like one of the most balanced club in the world at the moment.

And there’s something about that fact that Wolves Football Club is almost a Portugal National team. That is something to treasure as a Portugal citizen.

Share this on WhatsApp