Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
 
A senator in the Nigerian National Assembly has chided Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State for trying to legalise the possession of AK-47 by Fulani herdsmen. Senator Ehigie Uzamere had at the weekend chided the Bauchi governor on his statement that “Fulani herders have no option but to carry AK-47 for self-defence because they are being attacked and killed by cattle rustlers.”
Senator Ehigie Uzamere emphasised that Governor Bala Mohammed may have legalized the possession of sophisticated weapons by all Nigerian citizens for self-defence against armed robbers, kidnappers, and the killer Fulani herdsmen. The senator expressed skepticism if the killer herdsmen are in the employment of Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State.
Senator Ehigie Uzamere declared: “it is a pity such words are coming from a Distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and a sitting Governor. In other words, every citizen of this country should carry AK-47 because we are all targets of armed robbers and marauding killer Fulani herdsmen.”
Senator Ehigie Uzamere further said that the Bauchi governor has been exposed enough, stating that Governor Mohammed will take offence if asked of his origin. The senator, therefore, said that the Bauchi governor may not be a Nigerian.
According to Senator Ehigie Uzamere, “His Excellency may, perhaps, know what we don’t know. If perchance these herdsmen are in his employ, he should know better to get them out of the bushes. He is exposed enough to go into cattle ranching. I am sure he’d find it a lucrative business.
“If anyone questions Mr. Governor’s origin of birth, I’m sure he’ll take offence, but his statement is a pointer he may not be a Nigerian.
“I had expected Mr. Governor to call for the criminals amongst the herdsmen to be identified and prosecuted. If criminals from other tribes are prosecuted, why not the criminals of Fulani identity.” Senator Ehigie Uzamere declared: “Anyway, before anarchy sets in, it is better we come together to renegotiate our corporate existence. Let Nigeria be on restructured terms, or we go our separate ways peacefully.”
Share this on WhatsApp