Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
There are suspicions that the death of Dr. Barton Williams, 36 years old medical doctor in Tennessee, USA, who suffered multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-A), emanated from the second dose of COVID vaccine administered to him one month ago. He was said to have encountered asymptomatic COVID, but he never tested positive to coronavirus. The death is being investigated in the US.
It was gathered that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is investigating the death of Dr. Barton Williams, a medical doctor in Tennessee. Williams was said to have died on February 8, 2021, about one month after receiving the second dose of COVID vaccination.
Preliminary medical report indicated that Dr. Barton Williams died from the adult form of multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-A), described as a condition triggered when the immune system attacks the body resulting in multi-system organ failure. It was said that occurrence of MIS-A is extremely rare.
Reports indicated that medical experts investigating the death were of the assumption that Williams encountered MIS-A in response to an asymptomatic case of COVID-19, not the vaccine.
However, Dr. Stephen Threlkeld, an infectious disease specialist, who was identified to have treated Williams, and currently working with the CDC to investigate the death, had disclosed that Williams tested negative for COVID while in the hospital and that Williams had told him that, to his knowledge, he had not the virus.
Threlkeld, though, noted that  testing revealed “two types of antibodies in [Williams’] system — one type of antibody that results from a natural COVID infection, and a second type of antibody from the vaccine.”
Analysing whether the vaccine, rather than an asymptomatic case of COVID, could have caused Williams to develop MIS-A, Dr. Threlkeld stated: “everyone who has had [MIS-A], has had the infection. There has been no case published yet of someone who has been documented to have this problem, who has been vaccinated in the past.”
He maintained: “this is not a reason, not to get the vaccine. It’s a reason to get the vaccine, because only people who have had the infection have had this occur.”
Another expert, Lyn Redwood, RN, MSN, president emerita of Childrens Health Defence had challenged the preliminary findings that ruled out the vaccine in favor of a rare reaction to an asymptomatic case of COVID.
Redwood had made reference to research that delineated temporal associations between Kawasaki  disease (KD), a disease that exhibits symptoms similar to MIS-C such as high fevers, rash and blood vessel inflammation, and a wide variety of vaccines, including hepatitis A and B, rotavirus influenza, DPT or DTaP, pneumococcal vaccines and yellow fever.
Redwood had declared: “Scientists who have studied the “distinctive immune system characteristics” of children with Kawasaki disease, a disease which is very similar to MIS-C, acknowledge that the ‘antigenic stimulation’ set in motion by vaccines and other biologics has the capacity to create “immunologic interference.” Redwood argued: “Is it possible that the MIS-C and MIS-A are the result of ‘pathogen priming’, a mechanism that other researchers euphemistically describe as ‘immune enhancement’?”
He explained: “Pathogen priming can arise when the proteins in viral vaccines are so similar (‘homologous’) to proteins in humans that they subsequently trigger out-of-control autoimmunity or hypersensitivity reactions such as shock syndrome and delayed anaphylaxis.”
The investigations and the scientific debate continue.
Share this on WhatsApp