Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
About 18 persons have been reportedly killed and several others abducted in coordinated attacks on several communities of Igabi and Chikun local government areas of Kaduna state.
Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan who confirmed the attacks and the casualty figures in a statement on Wednesday said, many houses and barns were razed in Anaba, while about 20 cows were rustled and a number of poultry slaughtered and carted away.
The Commissioner confirmed that the attacks which were launched on soft targets, where many of the villagers were kidnapped, followed the killing of several bandits via targeted air operations.
Aruwan said, Governor Nasir El-Rufai who lauded the troops for the successful extermination of the bandits, was saddened by the killings of the citizens and prayed for repose of their souls.
According to the Security Commissioner, “Security agencies have reported a sequence of attacks by armed bandits on soft targets in Igabi and Chikun local government areas occurring over the last 48 hours.
“According to the reports, Anaba village in Igabi local government area was attacked, with seven residents killed, listed as: Ali Musa, Isa Sharehu, Tijjani Isa, Auwalu Shehu, Hashim Abdullahi, Hassan Saidu and Umar Rilwanu.
“Many of the houses in the community were burnt down, along with storehouses and barns. About 20 cows were rustled and a number of poultry slaughtered and carted away.
“Also, Barinje village in Chikun local government area was attacked, with eight persons killed, listed as: Sunday Gwamna, Lawal Jizo, Salha Barau, Sabo Barau, Umaru Barau, Muhammadu Dan Azumi, Zailani Dogara and Jikan Gambo.
“Similarly, following intelligence of bandits converging at forests in between Maidaro/Damari general area of Giwa/Birnin Gwari LGAs, armed reconnaissance was conducted over the locations, in conjunction with ground troops who conducted cordon-and-search operations in the area.
“A further mission was conducted over Gagafada, Birnin Gwari LGA. No suspicious activities were observed here. The scan was extended to Gwaska, Goron Dutse, Kuyanbana, Maidaro and Sabon Birni.
“Regrettably, armed bandits attacked the loosely connected communities of Kwarten Rigasa, Kwarten Waziri and Kwarten Shaku in Igabi local government area.
“The bandits reportedly emerged from the Buruku area, and raided the villages in a cattle rustling operation. In the process, one Danjuma Isa from neighboring Ungwan Kanti village was killed, as he made his way on foot to Kwarten Rigasa.
Governor Nasir El-Rufai noted the reports with sadness, and sent condolences to the families of all those killed in these attacks, while offering prayers for the repose of their souls. He also wished the injured a quick recovery.
 
Share this on WhatsApp