Share this on WhatsApp
 


Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has joined nationalists in Nigeria clamouring for restructuring and devolution of powers. Governor El-Rufai had decried the rising insecurity in the country, advocating for power devolution from the federal to the state governments, pointing out the need    for state police and devolution of the judiciary to forestall the collapse of Nigeria. He said the constitution should be amended, noting centralized policing cannot handle the security crisis in Nigeria.
Governor El-Rufai in a public forum broadcasted on Channels Television stated: “I will dwell on three of the issues that I believe are critical to the immediate needs of the country to pull back from the brink.
“The first, it is imperative for Federal, state, and community policing. We do not have enough police. One centralised police for the country just have not worked. Secondly, we must amend the constitution and relevant laws to ensure control of oil and gas, mines, and minerals in the states that already have control over land under the land use Act with royalties and taxes payable to the Federal Government and the Federation Account
“Number three, we must rectify the anomaly of a Federation that has a more or less unitary judiciary.”
Governor El-Rufai pointed out that Nigerian elite lack consensus which he identified as the major poison of politics in the country.
The governor maintained: “My first recommendation is to implement the three key devolution proposals that I mentioned above. Give us state police now, vest all minerals in the state now, and decentralised our judiciary now, not tomorrow, not later.
“It is an understatement to say that Nigeria is in one of its most difficult moments. The genuine fears for their lives and property felt by many citizens across the country need to be assuaged. All responsible persons must show compassion to our compatriots that have been affected while calming nerves.
“Banditry is a national problem, with victims from all parts of the country, and we should address it with a common resolve.”
Share this on WhatsApp