Share this on WhatsApp

















 


By Ifeanyi Izeze
Give it to the President of Loveworld Inc., aka Christ Embassy Church, Rev Chris Oyakhilome, his undaunting dissenting voice and stance against the Covid-19 pandemic or rather plandemic has been a strong blow against the executors of this evil state capture.
No matter how anybody wants to say it, the truth remains that Pastor Chris has shown to be an outstanding role model as he undeniably distinguished himself from the bunch in his questioning of some of the issues particularly the supposed contingency measures around the Covid-19 scheme.
Since the beginning of the crisis and all the associated issues thereof in the first quarter of this year, anyone who has listened to Pastor Chris in context cannot deny the fact that he speaks the truth as it shown from the Holy Scripture. Many would not believe him as supposed but of all he has said will happen has happened just the way he said they will.
True to what the pastor said at the onset of the corona crisis that most of the measures adopted were not actually science-based, several national and regional governments have come out publicly to discredit some of those measures and decided to ease them off.
A natural, undiscerning mind may look at this Covid-19 and the associated issues as just another pandemic that would pass. After all, the world had seen pandemics in the past; the bubonic plague of 1347 and the 1918 influenza pandemic. Fine! But COVID-19 isn’t just another pandemic. There are certain world influencers who are bent on using the opportunity of this covid-19 scheme to change the world forever. It is already a common slang that the world will never return the same way it was pre-COVID-19 as ‘a new normal’ will emerge.
Remarkably, despite fierce criticisms even from some fellow preachers of the Christian faith against the pastor for his statements on some of the controversies around the pandemic and some announced measures taken by national governments to address the spread of the disease, Rev Chris insisted that most of the control measures were not based on science and that the disease on its own was not a death sentence as people were coerced to accept. Has he not been exonerated now?
He maintained that the ever-changing recommendations from governments and public health agencies coupled with the shroud of secrecy that surrounded the emergence and spread of the corona virus disease had more to it than what the people were meant to believe.
Rather than join in magnifying the fear pandemic or rather scamdemic as most prominent preachers did and some still doing, Pastor Chris encouraged his followers and other believers to pray fervently placing their faith and trust in God to properly equip world leaders in their battle against the spread of the disease and for the liberation of all those suffering from this crisis.
And as acknowledged by prominent preachers of the Christian faith across the world, Pastor Chris’ global leadership in prayers throughout the pandemic was clearly a strong source of strength and inspiration as he spread messages of hope and faith to billions of people around the world.
In his series of Global Day of Prayers since March 27, 2020, Pastor Chris has used his almost daily television prayer programme to share with believers of the Christian faith revelations of the scriptures from the Bible concerning what was going on. He also succeeded in impressing upon them the importance and power of prayers, especially when “times are trying and darkness encroaches from all directions.”
‘Your LoveWorld with Pastor Chris’, a seven-day per phase series of live broadcast global prayer sessions that ran up to Phase 7 was remarkably the most prominent among the prayer programmes. LoveWorld television networks worldwide streams all of the prayer sessions, in addition to live streaming on all social media platforms thereby offering many avenues for people around the world to take part in the various sessions.
The prayer services broadcast daily since April, have drawn billions of viewers from the United Kingdom, the United States, African countries and other parts of the world including Canada, the Middle East, India, South America and even China.
Do critics still need any convincing to agree that Pastor Chris is a world influencer? How else can you describe that his followers and listeners make up over a half of the world’s population.
Statistics from the Pastor’s Global Day of Prayers aired on March 27, 2020, on several Nigerian TV stations as well as radio and multi-platforms on Internet, Youtube, Facebook and over 900 TV/Radio Stations and Satellite TVs showed that over 3 billion people participated. The ‘Special Easter Sunday Service with Pastor Chris’ which also featured renowned televangelist Pastor Benny Hinn  broadcast on Easter Sunday, April 12, attracted 3.25 billion viewers/participants. This is not far from the official figures of the flagship book which he authors, the Rhapsody of Realities. The book is said to be the most translated book, second only to the Bible, and over three billion copies of this book, which is in its 20th year in print, has been distributed in 242 countries and territories in over 2000 languages and still counting.
The last week’s (December 1st into 2nd ) Global Day of Prayers from the available media statistics had almost 2 billion people from 244 countries across all regions of the world participated to pray for world leaders so they could discern and reject some of the evil agenda of some influencers in their countries.
No doubt, the influence of such a man will definitely make him a subject of discussion. Criticism itself is not a bad idea. A man who has such a humongous followership or listening base definitely has no small influence. For over 3 billion people out of 7 billion people on the face of the earth to tune in to listen to him is a testament to what he has to offer.
How do you explain that rather than see Pastor Chris’ revelations and the subsequent organizing of global prayers for Christians (with over 3 billion people participating) to come together and stop the plan of the devil ahead of his time, it has since been a barrage of attacks not from unbelievers, no, but from the very household of faith that is supposed to be concerned about the unfolding agenda?
Is it not tragic that the barrage of criticisms against the pastor has been coming largely from the same body of Christ he was trying to warn and even rescue from the covert agenda of the devil and his agents? How do you explain that? What is consoling though is that none of those attacking him including some preachers of the gospel had dared to disagree that his teaching using the same Bible available to every believer in Christ was a fairytale.
None of the critics has openly contended that the push for the idea to insert a chip in everyone through a compulsory vaccination; the resetting/recalibration of the global economy are all modules in the scheme of  actualising the agenda of the Antichrist which are: One World Government; One World Economy and; One World Religion?
Are we then going to say that because Pastor Chris’ perspective about this whole Covid-19 controversy is at crossroads with what the World Health Organisation or the other global leaders or sponsors of this evil agenda believe, he should be stripped of the right to hold his opinion by sticking to the gospel truth and telling his followers and Christian faithfuls across the globe to do the same?
Can any of the critics come out to disagree that this proposed vaccine implant with digital identification is not supposed to be happening now until the church is taking away by the rapture as Pastor Chris has been harping on? We know that this plan would be carried out in full effect where laws would be made to force people to get the vaccination which is the introduction of the chip (Mark of the beast) but should not be allowed to happen until the church is gone.
If this is clearly stated in the same Bible that both Pastor Chris and these other preachers use, how come none of the critics showing any level of concern on the covert arrangement or they don’t believe it’s true? What does Ezekiel Chapter 33 verse 6 means to them?
If background checks were properly done and truth be told, it would be obvious to the critics especially some preachers, journalists and opinion writers that Pastor Chris is not a political or social commentator. It is surprising that anyone should contend that the pastor’s comments/teachings since the beginning of this saga were absolutely necessary so believers (especially his followers) can understand what is going on in their world and be guided to pray appropriately.
Pastor Chris to me only opened the eyes of his followers and listeners to the truth of the gospel as clearly contained in the Scriptures. His undaunting stance since the beginning of the covid-19 saga, whether anybody wants to hear it or not, has made him in Christendom an influencer of no small repute and an outstanding role model. And we salute this man of uncommon courage. More grace Sir!











Share this on WhatsApp