Share this on WhatsApp
 


 
Some groups of medical professionals around the world have warned people of the devastating effects of the experimental COVID-19 vaccines which include death, brain injuries, life-long autoimmune disease, infertility, and more.
It would be recalled that the US’s Centre for Disease Control recently reported about 1,095 deaths following experimental COVID-19 Vaccines while UK Government reported 294 Deaths
According to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), a U.S. Government funded database that tracks injuries and deaths caused by vaccines, the data goes through February 18, 2021, with 19,907 recorded adverse events, including 1,095 deaths following injections of the experimental COVID mRNA shots by Pfizer and Moderna.
Besides the recorded 1,095 deaths, there were 4,151 visits to Emergency Room doctors, 403 permanent disabilities, and 2,298 hospitalizations.
Over 71% of the recorded deaths were over the age of 65, but there were also 158 deaths where the age was “unknown,” and it is likely that a majority of those deaths were among the elderly as well.
The vast majority of medical professionals worldwide now seem to agree that the COVID “pandemic” and the government actions still being implemented in response to COVID are causing much more harm than COVID itself.
The doctors who are from different countries have called for an end to the COVID-19 tyranny, describing vaccines as biological weapons of mass destruction as because people are dropping dead after being vaccinated.
One of the doctors, Dr. Judy Mikovits, said the vaccines could kill 50 million people in the U.S alone.
Judy A. Mikovits, PhD, who earned her BA from University of Virginia and PhD in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from George Washington University, explained the absurdity of giving a COVID-19 vaccine to healthy people who would already most likely have natural immunity.
“So now you’re going to inject an agent into every cell in the body. I just can’t even imagine a recipe for anything other than what I would consider mass murder on a scale where 50 million people will die in America from the vaccine,” she said.
Another medical expert, Andy Kaufman, M.D, a natural healing consultant, inventor, public speaker, forensic psychiatrist, and expert witness, said the vaccines are not really about controlling the dangerous virus at all, but a way to control people’s lives.
“This is the only important thing for me to do now, is to get this information out, so that we can prevent ourselves from living in a horrible, horrible future. I have two young children, and they are my main motivating factor, that I don’t want them to live in a world where they have no freedom. And that’s where we’re heading right now.
For Dr. Igor Shepherd of Wyoming State Public Health Department, the vaccines are very similar technology to the bio-weapon RND used to develop viral weapons.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp