Share this on WhatsApp

Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho has dared the Department of State Services (DSS) to arrest him following his declaration as a wanted man by the security body.
Recall that operatives of the DSS had on Thursday invaded his home in Ibadan, and arrested 12 of his aides. They also declared him wanted, advising that he turn himself in.
Reacting on Friday, Igboho noted that the agency had no right to declare him wanted as there was no prior invitation sent to him by the agency nor was any search warrant used by the officers who invaded his home.
He also said the guns found in his house were ‘government magic’, stating that he only makes use of traditional powers for protection.
READ ALSO: Wanted Igboho flees as DSS opens up on Thursday invasion of his house, alerts international community
Igboho who stated this in a statement issued by his media aide, Olayomi Koiki, titled, ‘My Persecution By Buhari Regime: Setting The Record Straight’, clarified that his intervention was necessitated by the government’s failure to provide security for its citizens noting that his agitations had never involved bloodshed.
He also alleged that the invasion at his house was an attempt by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to silence him so the killer-herdsmen, whom he always antagonised, will take over the South-West region.
The statement read, “The invasion of my home by Nigerian security operatives and the Department of State Services’ (DSS) announcement that I’m wanted has made it essential for me to set the records straight for Nigerians and the international community.
“The failure of President Muhammadu Buhari and his government to curb the criminal activities of the murderous herdsmen necessitated my intervention. I ordinarily would not have intervened if the government had lived up to its responsibility of securing the Southwest and Nigeria at large from the criminal activities of the President’s ethnic men.
READ ALSO: Igboho’s aides inciting people for Saturday rally, FG has this plot
“Nigerians, the security operatives, and the presidency are aware that I have never moved against the peaceful Fulanis and other tribes living peacefully in the Southwest. My unjust persecution –for defending my people and community – is therefore surprising and unwarranted.
“After several unsuccessful attempts to link me to any crime, the Buhari regime desperately opts to forcefully silence me, so that the criminal herdsmen, who enjoy government’s sympathy, protection and immunity, can easily outrun the Southwest.
He said the president’s serial antics and desperation to acquire people’s ancestral lands across Nigeria for foreign Fulani herdsmen because they share ethnicity and occupation with the President is well known to Nigerians and the international community.
“I am being seen as a threat to the Fulanisation agenda in the Southwest, hence the desperation to soil my name.
“Nigerians and the international community should please be aware that the security operatives that invaded my home either planted the ammunition being paraded in the media in my home or harvested them from their armoury to frame me. The arms paraded are not mine, they are government magic. I protect myself with traditional powers, not with guns.
READ ALSO: Police makes Ojota tense for secessionists defying Igboho’s Saturday order
“In this modern age of technological advancement, why did the security operatives not put on body cameras to record their activities from the point of entry to their time of exit? Their action is a testament that the Buhari regime is incapable of using the desperate approach to silence peaceful social interventions.
“Nigerians and the international community should please note that I am a law-abiding citizen without blemish. I advise President Buhari to, in the interest of Nigerians that voted him to power, order his henchmen to desist from using falsehood and unholy tactics to soil my name.
“Such energy should be devoted to taming the herdsmen and bandits freely committing heinous crimes across Nigeria with impunity because their kinsman is in power.

Share this on WhatsApp