Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

One of the aides of Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeniyi Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, Dapo Salami says reports that his boss has been released were false and misleading.
“He is still being detained. Disregard any information that says Chief Igboho has been released. But I believe notable Yoruba leaders should have been working on ways to secure his release without any delay,” Salami said.
Recall that Benin Republic police on Monday evening arrested Igboho at Cardinal Bernardin International Airport in Cotonou, Benin Republic, while trying to fly from the country to Germany.
READ ALSO: IGBOHO LATEST: Benin Republic holds ace in FG, Yoruba Nation face-off
As per Beninoise newspaper, Banouto, Igboho was “disembarked from his plane, arrested by the country’s police while he was trying to travel to Europe and then transferred to the Cotonou Criminal Brigade”.
Igboho has led rallies in Ondo, Ekiti, Osun, Oyo, and Ogun states. He threatened to hold the rally in Lagos on July 3 but his home was invaded barely 72 hours to the planned date.
While some of his aides were arrested with various weapons, according to security officials, he escaped and was declared wanted.
He has in the past also called for the eviction of Fulanis from South-west states, an action that was condemned by federal and state authorities.
READ ALSO: Yoruba leaders in Cotomou battle to prevent extradition of Sunday Igboho to Nigeria after arrest in Benin Rep
Although the Nigerian government is yet to speak about Igboho’s arrest, reactions have started pouring in from different individuals.
Meanwhile, Yoruba Nation agitators will on Wednesday afternoon stage a protest in Ibadan, Oyo State to demand release of their embattled leader Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho in Benin Republic.
The agitators last week protested against the raid of Igboho’s residence by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) and demanded release of those arrested in Igboho’s house.

Share this on WhatsApp