Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Biafra Nations League (BNL), separatist Biafra group in the gulf region, at reh weekend revealed plots to conquer the government of Cameroon and formally retrieve the entire Bakassi Peninsula from Cameroon. The group, accordingly, declared that towns in Bakassi Peninsula renamed by Cameroon government will not be recognized by the Biafra nation. The group disclosed that BNL has already commenced braking billboards and signposts that do not reflect real Efik names.
BNL Leaders, who include Princewill Chimezie Richards, Ebuta Akor Takon, Henry Edet and Linus Asuquo Essien, in a joint statement, threatened to torment Cameroun into regretting ever supporting the Nigerian government against Biafran separatist movements.
 
The BNL leaders disclosed Executive meeting last Saturday in Bakassi Peninsula was convened to deliberate on strategies to conquer the Cameroonian government. The group renewed threat to sabotage Cameroon’s maritime security in the gulf region. The BNL vowed to make it difficult for President Paul Biya to govern the parts of Eastern Nigeria territory ceded to the country by the nigerian government.  “We met to discuss on how to increase our efforts in sabotaging their maritime security; Cameroon won’t be spared from maritime security threats in the Gulf of Guinea.
“They know what they have encountered since 2019 in the Peninsula,” BNL leaders revealed.
The group recalled how militants loyal to BNL burnt newly constructed markets in Idabato subdivision in May 2019; adding that since then, the market has not been rebuilt by the Cameroonian government.
“We kept telling them that the Bakassi people are not comfortable being controlled by their policies; we told them to build their markets in Cameroon, that our people can’t pay taxes to them.
“We rejected every structure here in 2019 when they ignored our warnings to construct markets at Atabong coast which they now call Idabato subdivision, militants invaded that market with horsepower boats and burnt it down. “They have since been afraid of erecting any further structure in the region. Seems they have forgotten the attack on BIR in Idabato coast in June 2020 when they claimed that they encountered sea pirates and killed five with about four corpses fallen inside the sea; what about the clash in Isangele subdivision in May 2021 between them and Militants who declared their supports for us.
“We won’t allow any nation working with Nigeria to enjoy peace in the Gulf of Guinea,” BNL leaders declared.
The leaders declared that BNL will not recognize Cameroon’s authority over Bakassi Peninsula, warning the Cameroonian authority to avoid erecting any structure in the region.
Share this on WhatsApp