Share this on WhatsAppThe post-primary election crisis of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 6 governorship election in Anambra State is compounding the party’s survival at the polls. The declared winner of the APC primary election in Anambra, Andy Uba, and two other APC leaders in the state to shun an interventionist meeting convened on Sunday night by Dr. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour.
Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, Chairman of the APC Committee for the Anambra Primary Election, had declared Andy Uba winner of the primary election and APC candidate for the Anambra State governorship election. Many APC stalwarts had challenged the decision of Governor Abiodun, protesting that the governorship primary election never held in Anambra as scheduled by the party leadership.
A source revealed to National Daily that Governor Abiodun on arrival, held a meeting at 1.00am in the state, demanding the aspirants to submit their ‘credentials’ to the party; then, left for Owerri at night to meet Governor Hope Uzodinma. The National Daily source insisted that there was no APC primary in Anambra, noting that APC is stocked in the governorship election.
Dr. Chris Ngige had led 11 aspirants to reject the result of the APC primary declared by Abiodun.
However, as the crisis rages, Ngige called them to a meeting on Sunday night. Andy Uba and two others, including Ike Obasi Mokalu, Maxwell Okoye did not attend the meeting called by Ngige on Sunday night. Andy Uba insisted that the APC primary is not a matter for discussion.
However, there were indications that the Andy Uba candidacy has legality questions to clarify, as APC stakeholders were of the view that “it is a tall order for INEC to accept Andy Uba.
National Daily gathered that Chris Uba is sponsoring Ugockukwu Uba for the APC ticket; he did not want Andy Uba to get the ticket.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and APGA are also thrown into the theatre of post-primary election crisis.
National Daily will unfold more details in subsequent reports.
Share this on WhatsApp