Share this on WhatsApp 
Former President of South African, Jacob Zuma, on Sunday vowed to resist the judgment of a South African court which sentenced him to 15 months imprisonment by the court. The former President is yet to make himself available to the South African government to commence his prison terms. The former president at his Nkandla homestead in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where hundreds of his supporters were gathered outside in solidarity, insisted that he has no need to go to prison. His supporters had threatened that they will make South Africa ungovernable if Zuma foes to prison.
Zuma further protested that his rights had been violated as a deadline approached for him to surrender to authorities.
“My constitutional rights were abused” by judges of the country’s constitutional court. “No need for me to go to jail today,” Zuma declared; protesting the 15 months imprisonment for contempt of court after he consistently refused to give evidence to corruption investigators.
The South African court, however, accepted to entertain the challenge of the judgement for rescind of the order by the former president, after sentencing him to 15 months imprisonment.
The deadline issued to Zuma to surrender elapse on Sunday. Zuma 79 years, was yet to show any willingness to submit himself to the South African government to commence his jail term.
Supporters of the former president demonstrated a show of force at Zuma’s residence, wearing the African National Congress (ANC) attire, shielding Zuma at his Nkandla homestead in Kwa-Zulu Natal province.
One of the supporters was cited to have declared: “When I saw the police here, I wondered how will they get to me, how will they get through all these people.
“If (Police Minister) Bheki Cele comes here to arrest Baba (Zuma), he must start with us.”
The supporters reiterating their threats to shield Zuma from arrest, demanded the resignation of President Cyril Ramaphosa.
“We are here to say Ramaphosa must step down. Must step down. “As from Monday, we will make the country ungovernable,” one of the loyalists had vowed.
Meanwhile, Police personnel were said to be on red alert, deployed to the province on Sunday to control the crowd at Nkandla, with orders to arrest Zuma as the time runs out.
It was emphasised that if former President Zuma resists to surrender to the South African government, the police will be given a further three days by the court to arrest him.
Meanwhile, crisis looms in the ANC as supporters of Zuma and Ramaphosa mobilise for showdown in the party.
Share this on WhatsApp