L-R: Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Lagos Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, the Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, and other Muslim Faithful praying at Dodan Barracks Muslim praying ground at Obalende, Lagos.
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





The Deputy Governor of  Lagos State, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, has charged Nigerians to live in peace with one another to enhance national economic growth and development.
Hamzat gave the charge on Tuesday in Lagos at the Eid-el-Kabir prayer held at Dodan Barracks Praying Ground, Obalende, Lagos.
The deputy governor explained that peace in the land would bring stability and make the economy vibrant, adding that the lack of peace can bring under development and poverty.
“For us as a country, we need to grow our economy. For this, there must be peace in the land as insurgency leads to poverty, unemployment, and unrest.
“The essence of Eid-el-Kabir is all about being selfless and caring for one another.
“Therefore, we should be fair and caring to each other and show love to ourselves. I appeal to all Muslim brothers and sisters to abide by the tenets of Islam for love to reign,” he said.
Hamzat cautioned the Muslim faithful not to celebrate at all costs and abide by all COVID-19 protocols.
He advised Nigerians to be cautious, noting that the number of admissions in isolation centers is on the increase.
In his sermon, the Chief Imam, Suleiman Abou-Nolla called for peaceful coexistence, sacrifice for one another, and love, noting that Islam as a religion, never encouraged hatred and killing.
He, therefore, urged the arms of government, civil servants, and every stakeholder in governance charged with the responsibilities of delivering dividends of democracy, to discharge their duties without favor and discrimination.
The Chief Imam also appealed to the government to see religious leaders as partners in reaching out to the vulnerable and grassroots members of the society.
“It is my wish and desire that we continue to observe the value of humility and self-reformation in an effort to turn good values into permanent features of our lives.
“Let us be reminded that the condition of people lies in their personal effort of reforming their individual character and attitudes.
The National Daily reports that in spite of the heavy downpour, Muslim faithful and dignitaries defied the rain to observe the Eid-el-Kabir prayers.
Among dignitaries at the praying ground were the Speaker, House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, and the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu.
Others were the Chairman, Police Service Commission, Alhaji Musiliu Smith, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman, Lagos State Chapter, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, and Muslim clerics.






Share this on WhatsApp