Share this on WhatsAppKidnappers have continued to lay siege in Kaduna State, moving closer to target children of public office holders in the state. The new plots are generating apprehension across the state, particularly, among state actors. Accordingly, Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State withdrew his son and daughter from public school. The governor at the weekend revealed that he withdrew his son and daughter after receiving intelligence on plots by three bandit groups to kidnap his children in schools.
Governor El-Rufai had in a media interaction, disclosed that security reports at his behest indicated that three bandit groups have plotted to kidnap his son from school, noting that if they succeeded, then, his other children will be exposed to grave danger.
Governor El-Rufai recalled that he registered Sadiq and the younger sister, Nasrine, in the same school. He said that because of the security crisis, the family was compelled to withdraw the two children from the public school temporarily. He said that his family accepted advice of the security operatives to withdraw his son and daughter to forestall the school from being attacked by bandits.
“My son is registered in the school because his sister also became six years of age and we registered her in the school, but we have had to temporarily withdraw them for the security of the school because we got intercept from at least two groups that are planning to attack the school to kidnap my son.
“I don’t think they will succeed because there will be enough security there to prevent it, but other children may be placed in danger. We have no idea what weapons they will come with,” Governor El-Rufai had declared.”
The governor stated that the two children will return to Kaduna Capital School as soon as the security situation improves.
Governor El-Rufai registered his six-year-old son, Abubakar-Sadiq, at the Kaduna Capital School, a public school located in Kaduna, in September 2019. The governor demonstrated his leadership willing to reinvigorate public education in the state, reactivating the public school for competitiveness.
Share this on WhatsApp