Share this on WhatsApp 
It has been revealed at last at the Lagos Judicial Panel on Restitution for Victims of SARS and other related abuses, that dead bodies were deposited at certain morgue after the October 20, 2020 shooting at the Lekki Toll Gate by the Nigerian Amry, venue of #EndSARS protest by the Nigerian youths. The Lagos Judicial Panel on Restitution for Victims of SARS and other related abuses, on Saturday admitted in evidence post mortem results and Compact Discs of all 99 corpses deposited at the Lagos morgue between 20th and 27th of October 2020, after the #Lekkishooting of protesters. However, only three of the 99 corpses were said to be identified as protesters during the #EndSARS peaceful protest, according to the consultant pathologist to the Lagos State Government, Professor John Obafunwa, who testified before the panel. Other dead bodies discovered during the protest are yet to be identified.
A consultant pathologist to the Lagos State Government, Professor John Obafunwa, testifying before the panel on Saturday, submitted the results of the autopsy in accordance with an order issued on June 5, 2021, for the presentation of the documents to the panel.
Chairman of the panel, Justice Doris Okuwobi, admitted the documents in evidence after the counsel to some EndSARS protesters, Yinka Olumide-Fusika (SAN), moved for the documents to be admitted. There was no objection from other parties before the panel.
Chairman of the Lagos Judicial Panel on Restitution for Victims of SARS and other related abuses, had at the June 5 sitting, ordered Professor Obafunwa to present before the panel, the post mortem reports conducted on all 99 bodies said to have been picked from different parts of Lagos between the 20th and 27th of Oct, 2020.
The Chairman, Justice Okuwobi, issued the order after the pathologist testified that the coroner’s office conducted post mortem autopsies on 99 bodies during the period.
Professor Obafunwa had testified that of the 99, only three bodies were labelled as #EndSARS Lekki.
Share this on WhatsApp