Share this on WhatsApp

Famous comedian, Princess has tackled Nollywood veteran actress, Idowu Philips, popularly known as Iya Rainbow over a comment credited to her that Princess sneaked out from the court room after Baba Ijesha was granted bail.
Princess on Friday said she was ashamed of the veteran actress for uttering such a comment.
“Mama Rainbow, I am ashamed of you. You are not a good mother. I regret I ever respected you. I regret that I ever saw you as a mother and grandmother.”
“I even took my time to explain to you. You told me that Baba Ijesha called you to help him beg me that he has offended me. I then asked you if he told you what he did and you said he didn’t.”
READ ALSO: Baba Ijesha: TAMPAN threatens Iyabo Ojo, Nkechi Blessing
“I then explained to you that this is what he did and you were shaking on the phone in shock. You pleaded with me to send my house address to you. On the third day, you called me saying what I disclosed to you really hurt you and that you could tell I wasn’t okay, that I was crying and I wasn’t myself.”
“You now asked for my house address so you would come and see me. I sent you the address, you never came. You didn’t come because it didn’t affect you. You felt like I wasn’t your child.”
“You gave birth to your own children, Mama Rainbow! When your child had issues with his Instagram page, I saw how you came out to plead. That was your child. You know how to take care of your own child but because I am another person’s child, you called me and told me to go and release a person who was in police custody for a crime.”
READ ALSO: Baba Ijesha: “Alleged victim insists she wasn’t raped”
“I was crying that day. I wasn’t happy. I explained everything to you. You were now pretending like you were a good mother.”
“Have you come to see me since then? Have you called me since then to even check up on me? You are now saying while in court I was looking for a way to sneak out? You are an elder. What your eyes did not see you are not supposed to say.”
“How can you say such a thing. Don’t ever! Anything that concerns me please just stay away from it because I used to respect you up until this evening. It is a shame.”
“If I was your child, would you come to me and say I should go and release somebody that is in police custody for a crime they are investigating? And then you go online to start saying I wanted to sneak out of the court. Were you there? Were you with me when I was in court?”
READ ALSO: Baba Ijesha opens up on bail conditions, disagreement with lawyer
“Who are you Mama Rainbow? You are supposed to be a role model, a grandmother, a strong Christian? I am ashamed of you that you can come for me in that way at your age.”
“Do you think I am afraid of you? Mama Rainbow! You are not worthy of the respect I gave to you. Princess Oluwadamilola will stand for my child till the end. I will stand for all the other victims. I will stand for anybody that has been molested or defiled. You Mama Rainbow, what do you stand for?”

Share this on WhatsApp