Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

James Matol, the soldier who allegedly murdered his girlfriend, Jennifer Ugadu, a student of Niger Delta University, Ammasoma in Bayelsa state is said to be on the run as the Nigerian Army has launched a manhunt for him.
Matol, who was identified as her lover, was accused of killing her after he allegedly posted some grievous comments on her WhatsApp page, claiming to have murdered her due to cheating and emotional frustration.
The soldier also claimed that he had informed Jennifer’s mother and his own aunt of his action and that two of her friends Vera and Eniye were not giving the deceased good advice.
READ ALSO: Why I killed my undergraduate lover, soldier confesses
Security personnel attached to the institution said the body of the 21-year-old student was discovered yesterday with bullet wounds and a finger cut off. A thumb was almost cut off too, suggesting that there was a struggle.
The Director Army Public Relation, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, confirmed that the student was shot in her apartment by the suspect now at large.
Nwachukwu said there was no place for such barbaric acts in the army, adding that the Nigerian army had commiserated with the family of the deceased.
According to him, Nigeria army is an institution that is accountable to the people and would ensure justice is served.
READ ALSO: Massive shakeup in Army as COAS rejigs PSOs, field commanders
“The NA has taken the allegation seriously and joint investigation has commenced, while effort to profile and ascertain the true identity of the suspect is ongoing.
“The NA being a professional and disciplined organisation will continue to uphold and respect the Fundamental Human Rights of citizens as enshrined in the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” Nwachukwu said.
Nwachukwu said members of the public should be rest assured that details of the investigation would be made public.
“The NA also wishes to reaffirm that as a force with zero tolerance for any form of criminality, such allegations will not only be investigated, but the culprit will be made to face the full wrath of the law,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp