Share this on WhatsAppThe prime suspect in the gruesome murder of the Chief Executive Officer, CEO, of Super TV, Usifo Ataga, Chidinma Ojukwu has retracted her earlier statement where she confessed to the murder.
Ojukwu was paraded by the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu on June 24, 2021 at the Police Command in connection with the murder of Ataga.
Ataga was stabbed to death on June 15, 2021 at an apartment in the Lekki area of Lagos State.
READ ALSO: Super TV CEO: Matchmaker named, more evidence of Chidinma’s criminalities exposed
Ojukwu, who is in detention released an eight minute video, well dressed and polished, as she recanted all she said earlier when she alleged she stabbed Ataga to death.
In the video, Ojukwu said she did not did not kill Ataga as she earlier claimed when she was paraded by the police.
Ojukwu said Ataga was already killed before she got to the apartment and that she met him dead and did not know who killed him.
She painted a picture of coming into the apartment and meeting Ataga in a pool of his blood and that it looked as if someone broke in to kill her.
Ojukwu said he saw him on the floor and did not know what to do and that she took her things and his things and went away.
READ ALSO: Chidinma: New twist as Ataga’s family points to new accomplices
“I never had anything to do with his death, I don’t know who might have come into the apartment, definitely, somebody did that, but I don’t know who that person is, I don’t know what happened when I left to buy the food, I don’t know,” she said.
Reacting to the video, spokesperson, Lagos State Police Command, Muyiwa Adejobi said the interview was an old one and should be dismissed.
He said whatever was said in the video would not change the facts the police had gathered on Ojukwu as the prime suspect in the murder of Ataga.
She had earlier said at some point, he hit her head on the wall and that she also retaliated, adding that at some point, he was chasing her around the kitchen cabinet.
“I took a knife and stabbed his neck. I approached the door and he followed me. I stabbed him twice on the neck. I threw the knife to the bed and he was going for it but I also went for it. He dragged the knife with me and it broke and he fell on the floor,” she had narrated.
Share this on WhatsApp