Share this on WhatsAppThese are agonizing moments for Haiti as President Jovenel Moise was assassinated in front of his wife overnight at their private residence.
The brutal act was reported by the local media and a statement from the country’s Prime Minister.
The property was attacked by a group of unidentified individuals at around 1am and the president was shot dead, Interim PM Claude Joseph said in a statement early on Wednesday.
Mr Moise was said to have been killed after a group of “unidentified” individuals, some speaking Spanish, broke into the home in the suburbs of Port-au-Prince.
The 53-year-old was “mortally wounded” while his wife First Lady Martine is said to have been injured by multiple gunshot wounds and taken to hospital.
Mr Joseph said he would be taking charge and Haiti remained under the control of the police and armed forces.
He added: “All measures are taken to guarantee the continuity of the State and protect the Nation.”
The is coming after Mr Moise claimed in February another assassination plot was prevented by police.
“There was an attempt on my life,” he said during a national address.
“I thank my head of security at the palace. The goal of these people was to make an attempt on my life. That plan was aborted.”
The Caribbean country has been suffering a political crisis in recent months with hundreds marching through Port-au-Prince in February calling for the end of the current government.
Haiti which has long been marred by poverty and political instability has been struggling to rebuild after earthquakes in recent years.
Meanwhile, the Moise administration has been accused of financial impropriety over the President’s decision to axe fuel subsidies.
Mr Moise had last year, denied allegations of corruption and suggestions he was turning the country into a dictatorship.
“We’re trying to find a solution to this crisis. I’m not the first president to rule by decree. And I’m confident that the answer is around the corner; then the legislature will be put in place to play its role,” he told The Daily Telegraph.
His opponents said he should have left office on February 7 having failed to hold elections the year before.
Haiti, the poorest country in the Americas, had been ruled by decree by the late President, after legislative elections due in 2018 were delayed in the wake of disputes, including on when his own term ends.
Kidnappings for ransom have also surged this year, according to reports, reflecting the growing influence of armed gangs.
Share this on WhatsApp