Share this on WhatsAppReported cases of side effects, including death and hospitalization among fully COVID-19 vaccinated persons have continued to rise, according to latest data released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
According to the data, around 4,686 cases have been documented in the US alone.
Similarly, nearly 30 people in Louisiana who were fully vaccinated against COVID died from the virus, according to the Louisiana Department of Health (LDH).
Dr. Joseph Kanter, LDH state health officer and medical director, said 27 people between the ages of 28 and 93 died with COVID more than two weeks after being fully vaccinated.
“These are people who died from COVID, from complications of COVID, despite being vaccinated because the vaccine is not 100% [effective] and people with weakened immune systems, people who are a little bit older, and some people for reasons we don’t really understand, might not mount a full immune response to the vaccine,” he said.
READ ALSO: COVID-19:  Fully vaccinated persons suffer higher mortality rate, says report
According to the LDH, 1,563 breakthrough cases have been reported. As of June 7, 94 fully vaccinated people were hospitalized statewide with COVID-like symptoms.
According to the San Francisco Examiner, more than 7,550 breakthrough cases have been reported through June 23 among fully vaccinated Californians.
Most cases were minor, but 62 people died from COVID, according to the California Department of Public Health. California’s public health agency reported 584 fully vaccinated people had been hospitalized with COVID infection, but hospitalization status wasn’t available for 46% of post-vaccination cases.
On July 7, state health officials reported 2,013 new infections among all Californians, including 24 deaths.
Dr. Eugene Choi, a Los Angeles radiologist, contracted COVID in June, nearly six months after his first dose of the Pfizer vaccine.
READ ALSO: Landmark Court ruling proves government faked COVID-19 death statistics
At first, “I did not think of COVID,” said Choi. “I thought … OK, it must be that other flus and colds are coming out of the woodwork.”
As Choi’s fever progressed, he decided to get a COVID test and it was positive. His wife, also vaccinated, and their 2-year-old son also contracted COVID.
The historic scale of the COVID vaccination effort means thousands of people have contracted COVID after vaccination, Nashville Public Radio reported. The experience has become so common the CDC stopped reporting breakthrough cases unless a patient is hospitalized or dies.
According to a report by the Tennessee Department of Health (TDH), breakthrough cases have resulted in 140 hospitalizations and 20 deaths in the state. As of May 1, TDH has not counted all breakthrough cases as the CDC “asked that only severe outcomes (hospitalization or death) be reported.”
READ ALSO: CDC drops bombshell on deadly side-effects of COVID-19 Vaccines
Public health officials in Tennessee are doing random genetic sequencing of positive COVID tests to track variants, but have not determined which variants are responsible for the breakthrough cases.
According to The Wall Street Journal, almost half of adults in Israel infected in an outbreak of the Delta variant were fully vaccinated with Pfizer’s vaccine.
Chezy Levy, director-general of Israel’s health ministry, told state broadcaster Kan Bet that about 40% to 50% of new cases appeared in people who had been vaccinated, Haaretz reported.
Levy said a third of the new daily cases occurred in people who had been vaccinated. Though they are preliminary, the figures show the Delta variant may spread even in places like Israel where large portions of the population have been vaccinated.
In a recent analysis by the Israeli government, the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID vaccine appeared to be less effective against COVID infections caused by the Delta variant.
Share this on WhatsApp