Share this on WhatsAppThe day the England fans around the world anxiously await in expectation for a major trophy after 55 years is here.
Meanwhile, while the wait is on, their talismanic defender Harry Maguire has received a ban from a rare source.
While, Harry who thankfully recovered from an injury prior to the tournament has been wowing for his country in their incredible run to Sunday’s final, he has suffered a ban from his partner.
The Manchester United captain’s fiancée Fern Hawkins has revealed she hasn’t seen the England star for five weeks because of the Euros.
The England defender’s fine exploits on the pitch has come at a price – he hasn’t seen brunette beauty Fern because he’s been so busy with his international football duties.
England will on Sunday night face Italy at Wembley in the Euro 2020 final, with the national team on the cusp of their first major title for 55 years.
It was back in 1966 when England famously won the World Cup and, if Harry and his teammates can pull off another memorable win, no doubt Fern will be very forgiving.
The England squad have been isolating together as a team due to the strict coronavirus protocols. And that means that no wives, girlfriend and fiancees have been able to embrace their partners despite their fantastic success.
Fern, who shares two children with the England ace, posted a sweet snap of Harry after England’s famous semi-final win over Denmark at Wembley on Wednesday night.
“BRING IT HOME BABY,” she added.
Defender Harry commented back that he “misses” his love, but it’s only a few more days until the European championships come to an end.
And Fern’s 55,000 Insta fans thanked her for her patience as Harry looks to help deliver a trophy on Sunday night.
“Thank you for your sacrifice Fern,” commented one fan. “It will be worth while in the end.”
“Ahhh bless! Can’t imagine how much you want that HUG!” added another.
While a third beamed: “Absolutely brilliant Fern, so pleased for you all. Bring on the final!”
Share this on WhatsApp