Share this on WhatsApp

Activists under the aegis of Niger Delta Activists Forum have accused the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari of preparing grounds for another show of shame for Nigerians with his claims that Nigeria’s daily consumption of fuel has more than doubled in recent times.
They also accused the NNPC boss of misinformation and fraud, via an anti-petroleum products smuggling pact christened ‘Operation white’ which they described as an in-house roadmap and action plan on figures and money manipulation.
In a statement jointly signed by the National President of NDAF, Comrade Success Jack, Comrade Tamunotonye Saturday and Comrade Manson Boma Kelly Dickson, National Secretary and National Director, administration respectively, they alerted Nigerians of a plan to defraud through the fraudulent oil subsidy.
READ ALSO: NNPC: Latest Petrol Subsidy Bill and shameless Buhari Govt
“Mele Kyari had declared that the daily average consumption of premium motor spirit in Nigeria had mysteriously, jumped from an already suspicious, troublesome, unsubstantiated and very dubious figure of sixty (60) million litres per day to a whooping one hundred and three million (103m) litres per day. Adding an enigmatic forty three million litres from nowhere. Nothing in this world can explain this illogic.
“It is further riveting, for Nigerians to be treated to another show of shame by the Mallam Mele Kyari led NNPC, by convoking and drafting in the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Department of State Service (DSS), Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence (NSCDC) to cement and give credence to a grand scheme.
READ ALSO: PDP governors lambast CBN, NNPC over modus operandi
 “It was the learned silk, Femi Falana (SAN) who first reawaken the non-plausibility of the smuggling argument as the reason for increased daily consumption, years ago by noting, and correctly so, that the daily consumption of Benin Republic, Togo, Cameroon, Niger and Ghana put together still averages less than three hundred thousand litres per day. So what on earth forms the basis for that misinformation?
“It is also very important for us as Nigerian, to interrogate volumes of daily truck out of PMS from the depots as reeled by PPPRA according to NNPC and juxtapose that with available; DPR certified cargo discharged certificates of imported petroleum products (obviously subsidized), Bill of Laden and PPMC records.
They argued that the whole drama is just a precursor and theatre decoration for greedily pocketing more profits from increasing global oil price, instead of remitting it to FAAC, thereby justifying reasons for increment in pump price of PMS to the detriment of the poor Nigerian masses, soonest.
READ ALSO: Petrol price: NNPC awaits outcome of govt/Labour talks
“Many Nigerians also believe that this is the grim silhouette of political gladiators against the 2023 political season. But as a group, the Niger Delta Activists Forum is yet to fully understand the situation until full data is made available to us and analyzed.
The group said it has taken advantage of the freedom of information law, to request official information from all relevant agencies, departments, directorates and organs of Government.
“While we urge all Nigerians to get ready for resistance, should this drama be conclusively affirmed as a package of untruths, we also want drivers of the sector to realize that Nigerians are watching and so, we should rather engineer a system of our aspirations, sustained by truth.”

Share this on WhatsApp