Share this on WhatsAppThe family of popular rapper Lanre Fasasi aka Sound Sultan has confirmed the death of the popular musician at the tender age of 44.
On 12th of May, 2021, It was reported that Sound Sultan was somewhere in America where he was receiving treatment in form of chemotherapy as the musician was reportedly diagnosed with throat cancer
Sound Sultan, born Olanrewaju Fasasi on November 27, 1976 was a Nigerian rapper, singer, songwriter, actor, comedian and recording artist. He was regarded as one of the pacesetters of modern hip hop music in Nigeria.
In 1991, he had taken an interest in music, miming at school parties and writing his own lyrics. He attributes his early influence to his elder brother Baba Dee who studied theatre arts, and received most of his early stage experience through Baba Dee.
He started learning how to play the guitar after his secondary school education and was in a band by 1999.
Sound Sultan’s career in show business started in the 1990s, when he hosted shows to raise money for studio sessions. By 1999, he had won numerous local talent-hunt shows. He released his first single “Jagbajantis” in 2000, which was a hit in Nigeria.
After independently releasing other singles and featuring in hit songs of other artists, he was signed by Kennis Music.
Under Kennis Music, he released four albums. By 2007, his contract with the label expired and he partnered with Baba Dee to start Naija Ninjas, a parent organization for a record label, production outfit and clothing line.
 After starting as a rapper, he has worked in different musical genres from R&B to Afrobeat, soul and Nigerian Fuji music. He has said that artists shouldn’t be judged on the genre in which they perform, that the important thing is the message conveyed in the music.
Under Naija Ninjas, he released Back From The Future (2010) and signed artists such as Karma Da Rapper, Young GreyC, Shawn and Blacka.
In 2009, Sound Sultan married his long-term girlfriend Chichi Morah, now known as Farida Fasasi from the Igbo ethnic group.
The couple has three children.
Share this on WhatsApp