Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu, says National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu is among top favourites for the party’s presidential ticket because of his significant role in the party’s successes in 2015 and 2019 elections.
Okechukwu who disclosed this in a chat with journalists in Abuja, however debunked the insinuations that the APC leader has an agreement with President Muhammadu to succeed him in 2023.
He insisted that the ex-Lagos State governor is one of the top favourites for the APC presidential ticket because of his significant role in the party’s successes in 2015 and 2019 elections.
READ ALSO: Eid-el-Kabir: Tinubu preaches greater faith, brotherly concern as Muslims celebrate
“Methinks, he will be among the top aspirants to be considered, given his immense contribution to the success of our great party in 2015.
“There were rumours of a succession agreement between President Buhari and Tinubu. But on a personal level and as a member of the defunct CPC, I never heard of such an agreement. Mr. The President rarely enters into any formal or informal agreement with anybody. But he appreciates good deeds.
He also commended the APC national leadership for considering the idea of a consensus candidate for the 2023 presidential election.
READ ALSO: 2023: Buhari has a pact with Tinubu, president’s ally confirms
The VON chief said: “Many of us slept well last (Wednesday) night after reading the a profound statement from the social media credited to Distinguished Senator John Akpanudedehe, our National Secretary that at the appropriate time APC will come up with a consensus and agreeable presidential candidate that will fly its flag in 2023.
 “I hail the consensus proposal for it is a deft move which will perish the phobia of implosion of our great party as touted by some naysayers.
“First it is refreshing that President Buhari is not on a 3rd term agenda. Second, in my slightest imagination one doesn’t think any committee handling such delicate matters will miss out on our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the matrix,” he added.


Share this on WhatsApp