Share this on WhatsApp

Niger Delta activist and leader of the Movement for Emancipation of Niger Delta, MEND, Asari Dokubo has opened up on the N20m bribe he was alleged to have collected from Nnamdi Kanu’s Indigenous People of Biafra.
In a viral video, Dokubo described Kanu as a con artist for lying against him, and demanded for evidence to prove that he actually got anything from him or his organization.
“Doesn’t that make you a con man, an extortionist? Now you allege, the law says he who alleges must prove that you gave me N20 million, video doesn’t lie. When I started it last year leading to the election, you were so cowardly not to respond to me. You sent your followers to respond to me and they said a lot of things and I demanded the evidence that I demanded N200 million from you.
READ ALSO: Asari Dokubo attacks Nnamdi Kanu in new video
“I have never been a member of IPOB, you gave me N20 million, tell us is it by bank transfer, is it by cash, who brought the cash to me. I’m waiting. Produce the evidence” he challenged Nnamdi Kanu.
Asari Dokubo also accused Mazi Nnamdi Kanu of defrauding ‘Biafrans’ a lot, stating that he receives defence funds without giving an account of the spending. In a viral message, the Ijaw nation activist further accused Nnamdi Kanu of demanding payment from all Biafrans on a monthly basis in order to be part of the Biafra nation when actualized.
He said: “You are demanding that all Biafrans should pay money to you on a monthly basis or they will not be allowed to enter Biafra.
Describing Kanu as a liar and a con man, he also challenged him to show what he does for a living. “Where are you working? Who is paying you? Where do you get the money to gallivant everywhere? Do you pick money? Do you print money? Or does money fall from heaven?
READ ALSO:  Biafra is an Ijaw name – Asari Dokubo
“You called me a pipeline contractor, yes we make billions. So which one are you doing” he queried further.
He accused Nnamdi Kanu of preying on the gullibility of innocent Biafrans by extorting money from them. Asari Dokubo said Nnamdi Kanu and his family lost nothing in the Biafran war, insisting that his (Dokubo) family lost a lot including his grandmother, an outstanding Kalabari princess whom he said was nearly executed.
Share this on WhatsApp