Share this on WhatsAppPresident Muhammadu Buhari has commended the security operatives of the various agencies for dealing decisively with the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, and the pan Yoruba activist, Sunday Igoboho, unlike the failure to deal decisively with bandits ravaging the northwest, Boko Haram in the northeast and kidnappers across the country.
In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, President Buhari highlighted: “last week, we saw the enhanced collaboration of the Nigerian Law Enforcement Agencies, as they executed with great synchronization arrests of individuals who had inflicted pain and hardships on fellow citizens.
“The subversive leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), a group known for its murderous actions and virulent messaging, was detained as a result of cross-border cooperation.
“This international operation was executed in a closely coordinated fashion following which he was handed over to our National Intelligence Agency, and then returned to Nigeria to face the Law.”
The president stated that the violence instigated by IPOB has led to hundreds of fatalities, particularly, targeted at Government assets and Law Enforcement Agents. He maintained that additionally, there have been at last count, 55 separate violent attacks, heavily concentrated in the South-East, which heaped further hardship on honest and hardworking citizens, preventing them from earning their livelihood and going about their normal lives.
The president said that the government had long been monitoring the activities of IPOB and had strong cause to believe that their funding sources, include proceeds of suspected illicit criminal activities. “By this singular action of our Security Forces, sanity, calm and peace has been returned to our communities who previously lived in constant fear of these misguided elements,” he said.
The president narrated that in furtherance of continued diligent work, the State Security Service on Thursday, 1st July raided the residence of a militant ethnic Secessionist, who has also been conducting acts of terror and disturbing the peace under the guise of protecting fellow “kinsmen”.
The statement read in part: “His seditious utterances and antics, which he is known to have publicly expressed, have overtime morphed into very hateful and vile laden speeches.
“It must be highlighted that the government respects fundamental rights of citizens to express their views and recognizes this as a democratic tenet. However, any attempt to build an Armoury coupled with plans either subtle or expressed to undermine our unity as a nation will not be condoned.
“Mr. President’s directives to Security Services regarding anyone seen to be carrying arms, particularly AK-47 are clear and require no further illumination. “Assault weapons are not tools of peace loving people and as such, regardless of who they are and where they are from, the Security Agencies should treat them all the same.
“The successes of our Security Agencies must be commended as they have demonstrated significant deftness, guile and secrecy in carrying out these missions.
“This level of professionalism must be sustained and brought to bear as we focus on extracting from our society those who have found a new trade in targeting students, rural dwellers and our citizens in the North-West. The nation recognizes their efforts and sacrifice.”
The president was, however, silent on the failure of the coordinated security agencies to combat criminal activities of bandits, Fulani herdsmen, kidnappers and others.
Share this on WhatsApp