Share this on WhatsApp

The Nigerian Labour Congress has warned the federal government against selling the Transmission Company of Nigeria, saying it may lead to an increase in electricity tariff in the country.
The NLC President, Mr Ayuba Wabba, said this in a statement titled, “This Kite will not Fly’’ on Friday.
Wabba explained that instead of allegedly planning to sell the transmission company, FG should focus on improving the electricity supply.
He described the attempt to hand over the TCN to a few ‘privileged’ Nigerians as self-serving, obtuse, odious, morally reprehensible and criminal.
READ ALSO: Reps direct NERC to halt electricity tariffs hike
The NLC president said, “The TCN is a strategic economic asset of immense national security implications. This is because the TCN traverses all nooks and crannies of Nigeria.
“It will be wrong that our country will be deliberately exposed to an avoidable vulnerability and thus, provide an opportunity to others to restrain the Nigerian state.
“This position flows from the ineluctable lesson of the historical incidences of allowing some private organisations of questionable intentions and antecedence to own and run strategic economic assets in our country.
“We apprehend that the planned sale of the TCN is only an attempt to further confound the people and concurrently raise electricity tariff. Unfortunately, this time around, Nigerians have had enough.
READ ALSO: Electricity: Don advise UNILORIN to establish hydro-power at varsity dam
“The government cannot promise improved power supply to consumers by the planned sale of TCN. The under-the-table scheming as transparent privatisation cannot pass muster.
“It is an unsavoury narrative for our country, that even the privatised assets, which have survived the rapacity of the new owners, have been turned into unrealisable collaterals for unpayable loans.
“This constitutes a bone stuck in the throat of financial institutions and sundry creditors.”
Wabba explained that the plan would “fundamentally weaken the security of the nation and above all, deprive the people of their age-old investments in the commanding heights of the Nigerian economy”.
Share this on WhatsApp