Share this on WhatsApp
Grammy award-winning singer Wizkid has revealed what any lady that wants to marry him has to do in order to win his heart.
The singer who disclosed this on social media started off by hailing his future wife while adding that she will have to be patient with him, suggesting he is a maniac.
Wizkidayo stated the supposed lady will be saddled with the responsibility of buying a ring and going down on her knees to propose marriage to him.
He wrote: “Big shoutout to da one ima spends the rest of my life with, whoever you fucking are. U go try with this mad man. BTW my girl gotta buy me a ring and propose on both knees.”
READ ALSO: Grammys: Group congratulates Burna Boy, Wizkid condemns mockery of Davido
Meanwhile, social media users have found Wizzy’s marriage requirements to be witty as they have reacted in a number of amusing ways.
damilolaa____ said: “Even if you want me to lay on the floor to propose, imma do that Bigwiz.”
sholabrizzy stated: “E be like say BIG WIZ get craze pass WIZKID OH.”
richardsunday_3 wrote: “some girls will still agree.. Wizkid tells them they won’t get child support too.”
Seundreams said: “Cruise just full baba head.”
vintagewearl stated: “My sister is ready for all the requirements,when should we proceed?”
courtneybuju wrote: “After how many children? The person will kneel down and propose to u, on top second hand? Incase u don’t no u re a second hand.”
realbass.og said: “A king and more , and more what? And more worth. There are 10,000 girls who will currently go on both knees to marry wizzy. Their feminism gets people wey e no dey touch.”
__jhennyy wrote: “Lol some of us don buy ring since 2011 when superstar was released.”
Teezmolly stated: “Girls are pricing rings as I’m typing this thing now.”
teeh_lyfstyle said: “The standard gets as e be big wiz o.”
official_samvail wrote: “Wizkid don take that stuff wey him take last two weeks again…”
crownpet.xx stated: “That is to say MACHALA is single..Ladies shoot your shot now oo..”
Share this on WhatsApp