Share this on WhatsApp
flays police reckless violation of legal provisions 

Human rights groups,Confluence of Rights, Nigeria and International Center for Human Rights, Nonviolence and Safety Awareness   have jointly urged the Federal Government and other states of the federation to emulate the progressive action of Lagos State and stop dehumanizing poor and hapless Nigerians on the pretext of having come in conflict with the law.

In a statement equally signed by the Executive Directors of the two groups, Z.O. Sebanjo, Esq and Barr. Serah Ene Unobe opined that the legislative arm of Lagos State government had again taking a bold step by churning out a legal framework that shields a suspects until when convicted, thereby tackling the reckless and blatant violation of constitutional provisions.

“With this new Law, Lagos has blazed the trail again, as it did in the promulgation of the Criminal Justice Administration Law of Lagos State, a piece of legal finesse which had now been emulated by both the Federal Government and many other states in Nigeria.

The group of lawyers notes the proviso of ‘Presumption of innocence’, as an integral part to ensuring fairness in the dispensation of justice as afforded in the inalienable rights of every individuals in the constitution.

“We must commend the Lagos State Government whose legislative arm has come up with a robust legal infrastructure in defence of the rights of persons suspected to have come in conflict with the Law.

“The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, as amended, the Administration of Criminal Justice Act/Law, the Police Act, 2020, as well as a plethora of Regional and International Human Rights Instruments to which Nigeria is a party recognise the ‘presumption of innocence as a fundamental human right.’

“We call on the Federal Government of Nigeria as well as all the 36 federating states and the FCT to emulate this progressive action of Lagos and stop dehumanizing poor Nigerians on the pretext of having come in conflict with the law.” Said Barr. Serah Unobe.

The lawyers further stated the nitty-gritty of the provisions inherent in the presumption of innocence section of the constitution.

“Every accused person is presumed innocent of whatever crime she /he is accused of until given a fair hearing and convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction.

The groups added that some of the suspects’ rights were conscripted and recklessly violated; ” right to remain silent until she /he has access to legal representation is violated as suspects are often being compelled or forced to say incriminating things without the mandatory legal advice.

“Media Trial has become attractive to law enforcement officers in the face of poor or nil availability of forensic equipment to get investigations properly conducted and evidence legally procured.

“Right to personal liberty: the Police expose suspects to arrest and detention far in excess of legal and constitutional provisions;

“Right to the Dignity of the human person: it has become the practice, rather than the exception, for suspects to be exposed to all manners of indignities on the suspicion of one crime or the other.

“Not a few had, most regrettably, lost their lives in this wanton display of brute force on those the Law and the Constitution presume innocent.

“Right against torture: It is mind boggling what suspects go through in the hands of our law enforcement officers! The psychological and emotional torture, not to talk of the physical one, parading (innocent) suspects inflict on these victims/survivors are untellable.

“The most intriguing, nay, embarrassing aspect of all this is the selective nature in these wicked acts against suspects. Only the poor, the deprived and the vulnerable suffer these indignities.

“The politically exposed persons, the rich and the well-connected get all manners of undeserved protection by law enforcement officers!

“Confluence of Rights Nigeria and International Center for Human Rights, Nonviolence and Safety awareness highly commend  Lagos State for, again,  putting Nigeria in positive limelight as a welcome counterpoise to all the pervading debilitations.” Barr Unobe reiterated.
Share this on WhatsApp