Share this on WhatsAppThe love romance that reigned almost two decades ago between Hollywood sweethearts Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck was a thing of envy for many lovers.
The two lovebirds who met way back on the set of doomed film Gigli in 2001 started dating in 2002. They got engaged by 2003 with Affleck spending a whopping one $1million on a diamond ring, but only to call off the wedding and an eventual split in 2004.
They have both long enjoyed romantic relationships away from each where Ben Affleck shares three children with his ex-wife Jennifer Garner – 15-year-old Violet, Seraphina, 12, and Samuel, nine and Jennifer Lopez a 13-year-old twins Emme and Max with ex-husband Marc Anthony.
However, since the photo of the pair kissing at an event emerged in May, Jennifer, 51 and Ben, 48 have become an official couple after they got reunited last April following the former’s split from her erstwhile Yankees baseball player lover Alex Rodriguez.
Meanwhile, the latest reaching National Daily is that the couple is reportedly set to move in together just two months after reigniting their romance.
 National Daily further gathered from Us Weekly that they are spending “almost every night together” when they’re not working.
The report further added: “They plan on moving in together very soon.”
They continued that it “feels like they’ve been together again for years, not months” and that “as far as they’re both concerned, they’re just blessed to have found each other and discovered true love”.
While another source told the publication: “They’re fully committed to taking the next steps and spending the rest of their lives together.
“There’s not a single doubt in their mind[s] that this is [not] going to work.”
Rumours were first sparked that ‘Bennifer’ was back on after it was reported that the pair were emailing each other back in February while JLo was filming in the Dominican Republic.
They were later seen publicly in the first week of May in LA, which was just two weeks after JLo called off her engagement to Alex Rodriguez.
More recently, the couple were seen enjoying a romantic trip in the Hamptons where they were pictured looking incredibly loved up.
It comes after another source recently told Closer that Ben was planning to propose to JLo on her 52nd birthday.
The source suggested: “Ben wants to give long-lasting love another shot and is planning a romantic proposal on the singer’s 52nd birthday on 24 July.”
Share this on WhatsApp