Share this on WhatsApp

The Sole Administrator, Rivers State Waste Management Agency, RIWAMA, Bro Felix Obuah says the ingenuity and landmarks of Governor Nyesom Wike have confounded his political detractors and silenced the opposition in the State.
Bro Obuah made the remarks while fielding questions from newsmen immediately after the presentation of Governor Wike’s scorecard in the last six years to Rivers people and stakeholders at the famous Obi Wali International Conference Centre, Port Harcourt on Monday, July 12, 2021.
He said if those who have mismanaged the nation’s resources in recent times for lack of ideas and leadership qualities had consulted the Rivers State Governor Wike, Nigerians would have been a lot better, healthier and happier.
READ ALSO: Rigging elections is treasonable offence – Wike warns VCs, lecturers
The RIWAMA boss who superintended the affairs of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and under whose stratagem the governor won the governorship election back to back in 2015 and 2019 respectively, said he would remain ever grateful to God for the choice of the courageous Governor Wike.
He said the governor has not only written his name on the marbles for referencing but also proved beyond doubt that the mandate given to him by the Rivers people was not misplaced.
Obuah advised the All Progressives Congress-led federal government to swallow their pride and feel free to consult the Ikwerre-born politician for advice on how to pull the country out of the abysmal pit it has dragged her into.
READ ALSO: Obuah applauds Wike’s 6 years in office, optimistic of greater heights
Bro Obuah said it looks like magic that within so short a period, all the nooks and crannies of the State have been caught up in Wike’s revolution, changing the entire face of the state capital that even ‘we’ who live here are missing our way while driving because of not only the rehabilitated and newly constructed roads and flyovers, but also the installation of landmarks with hypnotizing aesthetic appeals.
The RIWAMA boss said, with the standard set by Governor Wike, it’s no longer going to be business as usual for any kind of person to long for the administration of any component of the new Rivers State.
“He has practically touched all sectors of the state economy – education, health, environment, transport, sports, judiciary, name it. Let me once again, enjoin the good people of Rivers State to continue to pray for and give His Excellency their support and for sure, everybody will be happier for it. May the good Lord continue to grant him the good health and more grace to execute all he has for our state”, Bro Obuah prayed.

Share this on WhatsApp