Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Embattled leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu has finally revealed how he was arrested and detained in Kenya before being handed over to the Nigerian authorities to face treason charges.
Recall that his arrest was announced three weeks ago by Nigeria’s Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami who said the arrest was made possible by collaboration with the Interpol.
Malami, however, didn’t mention the country where he was arrested. But there was speculation that Kanu was lured to Kenya where he was subsequently arrested and deported to Nigeria.
READ ALSO: Kalu denies visiting British Envoy to discuss IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu
Kanu’s special counsel, Aloy Ejimakor, was allowed to meet with the IPOB leader on Wednesday, inside the DSS detention facility Abuja, where he reportedly spoke with him for about three hours.
He said the people that abducted Kanu said that they were told by their sponsors that Kanu was a Nigerian terrorist linked to the Islamic terrorists in Kenya, presumably Al-Shabab.
Al-Shabab, a terrorist, jihadist group based in East Africa and Yemen, for decades has been carrying out deadly attacks in Kenya.
Ejimakor disclosed that the Nigerian government must have contracted a third party, probably outside the knowledge and involvement of the Kenyan government, for the “interception” of Kanu, going by the revelations from the IPOB leader.
READ ALSO: Nnamdi Kanu: Fresh tension in Abuja as IPOB members plan protest July 26 at Court, Biafra Nations holds emergency meeting
Kanu, according to Ejimakor, was held incommunicado and chained to a bare floor for eight days in a nondescript private facility in Kenya.
“Kanu was in point of fact tortured and subjected to untold cruel and inhuman treatment in Kenya. He said his abductors disclosed to him that they abducted him at the behest of Nigerian government,” the lawyer said.
“He was blindfolded and driven to the tarmac very close to the plane without passing through the airport immigration. The plane departed Nairobi at about 12 p.m. and arrived in Abuja in the evening.
“Kanu was flown to Abuja in the private jet on Sunday 27th June, 2021 from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Nairobi and that he was the lone passenger,” he added.
Ejimakor said Mazi Kanu was interviewed for the first time by three SSS officers, in his presence.
READ ALSO:N20m bribe: Asari Dokubo opens up on Nnamdi Kanu’s allegation
“The interview was revealing as it contained certain new allegations that were never heard of before. But all the questions relate directly or indirectly to his status as the leader of IPOB.
“I observed that despite what he has passed through, he was in high spirits and looked forward to overcoming the extraordinary rendition that brought him to Nigeria,” the lawyer said.
Share this on WhatsApp