Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The fear for bandits is now the beginning of wisdom for people of Kaduna state, especially at this time that Governor Nasir El-Rufai-led administration has made it clear that it would not negotiate with kidnappers in the state.
Recently Governor El-Rufai withdrew his son Abubakar-Sadiq from Kaduna Capital School, a public school, following an alleged plan by three bandit groups to kidnap him.
The governor had, in 2019, enrolled his son in a public school to lead by example for other top government officials in the state.
READ ALSO: Bandits strike again in Kaduna, kill another nine people
However, a few months later, El-Rufai said security reports available to his government had it that three bandit groups were planning to abduct his son from the school.
He said he also enrolled Sadiq’s younger sister, Nasrine in the same school after turning six years, but that security development has now forced the family to withdraw the children temporarily.
According to a report presented by the Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, Bandits have killed 222 persons and kidnapped 774 others in the last three months.
It also said bandits have begun to collect protection levies from farmers in communities across 12 local government areas.
READ ALSO: Why bandits, not cows, now destroy crops in Kaduna
Aruwan in the report  said 266 citizens were injured across the State while 8,553 cows and other livestock were rustled within the period under review.
Aruwan however noted 87 of the bandits majorly responsible for the killings and kidnap of innocent citizens of the state were killed within the period.
The Commissioner stated: “Banditry, violent attacks, communal clashes and reprisals in the second quarter accounted for 222 deaths across the State. Of this total, nine were women and eight were minors (below the age of 18).
“Of the total number, 159 deaths were recorded in Kaduna Central Senatorial District (72% of the total recorded). 156 of these occurred in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi, Chikun and Kajuru LGAs. Igabi LGA recorded 44 deaths, and Birnin Gwari LGA 42. Chikun LGA had 37, and Giwa LGA 21. Kajuru LGA recorded 12 deaths in the second quarter.
“Southern Kaduna Senatorial District had 54 deaths in total, of which five were women and four were below the age of 18. Kachia LGA had 21 deaths, followed by Jema’a LGA with 14 and Kauru LGA with six. While the Northern Senatorial District recorded nine people killed in the second quarter (around 4% of the total).
READ ALSO: Language that bandits understand
“Out of the 774 people kidnapped in the second quarter, Kaduna Central Senatorial District accounts for 555 (nearly 72% of the total). Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi, Chikun and Kajuru LGAs recorded 550 of these.
“Chikun LGA had 148 citizens kidnapped, Igabi had 139, while 91 persons were kidnapped from Giwa LGA. Kajuru LGA had 89 kidnapped citizens, and Birnin Gwari LGA recorded 83.
“Southern Kaduna Senatorial District recorded 164 kidnapped persons, with Kachia LGA reporting the highest number of 111. The Northern Senatorial District recorded 55 kidnapped persons, with 37 of these from Zaria LGA.
READ ALSO: Why arrest Nnamdi Kanu and spare Sheikh Gumi, Bandits – Diri
“Furthermore, bandits have begun to extract protection levies from some communities in return for permission to cultivate their fields. Many farmers in these areas, fearing for their lives and safety, have abandoned their fields altogether. This has already begun to affect crop yields, and the threat of food insecurity looms large.
“The most affected communities are in the frontline local government areas of Birnin Gwari, Igabi, Giwa, Zaria, Chikun, Kauru, Kajuru, Kachia, Kagarko, Zangon Kataf, Jema’a and Sanga.”

Share this on WhatsApp