Share this on WhatsApp
There seems to be a discordant tune between Sunday Igboho and Emeritus Professor, Banji Akintoye, leader of the Umbrella Body of Yoruba Self-Determination Groups, Ilana Omo Oodua over the planned Lagos rally scheduled for Saturday, July 3.
Recall that a few hours after the Ibadan home of Sunday Igboho was attacked, and in an interview with the BBC, he was quoted to have said the Lagos rally would no longer hold as planned.
But Emeritus Professor Banji Akintoye, leader of the Umbrella Body of Yoruba Self-Determination Groups, Ilana Omo Oodua (IOO) in a statement personally signed by him insisted the rally will be held on Saturday as scheduled.
READ ALSO: Breaking: Unknown Soldiers invade Sunday Igboho’s home
Reacting to the attacks on Igboho’s home, Prof. Akintoye called people at home and in Diaspora to immediately begin mass protests in front of palaces in Yoruba Land, and opposite the offices of the United Nations, European Union, British, French and United States Governments.
“We want to confirm again that the Pro-Yoruba Nation rally scheduled to hold on Saturday July 3rd, in Lagos will proceed as scheduled.”
The renowned historian alleged that the attack was carried out by the elements of the Nigerian Army who were accompanied by international terrorists hired by the Nigerian State.
He also alleged that the Assailants were all dressed in military uniform and spoke French language fluently.
READ ALSO: Why Tinubu, others should forget 2023 election, says Sunday Igboho
“Let me state without any fear or intimidation that the Muhammadu Buhari led Administration was responsible for the war that has just been declared against the peace-loving people of Yoruba Land.
“We have been peaceful from the inception of this struggle. We have adhered with both the Nigerian and International Laws guiding the agitation for Self-Determination.
“All our agitations have been peacefully, orderly and lawfully executed. We have commended the officers of the Nigerian Police many times for being professional in their modus of operations in relating to our protests and rallies for Self-Determination in Yoruba Cities.
“Therefore, I say on behalf of the Yoruba people that this attack on Chief Ighoho’s House was unnecessary, unfortunate, wicked, callous, cruel, irresponsible, illegal and atrocious.
“We are holding the Muhammadu Buhari led administration responsible for this barbaric attack. This is a declaration of war against peace-loving people.
Share this on WhatsApp