Share this on WhatsApp
The Center for Human and Socio-economic  Rights (CHSR) has vehemently faulted unprovoked attack on the residence of Mr. Sunday Adeyemo (alias Sunday Igboho)  by the joint team of security operatives in early hours of Thursday 1st July 2021.

The group in a statement signed by its President Comrade Alex Omotehinse premised its stance on a recent press parley held by the DSS, where the security apparatus took responsibility for the unwarranted  invasion of the Yoruba nation agitator leader’s residence.

It was alleged that they had an intelligence report that Mr. Igboho stockpiled arms in his house and that approaching the residence, they were heavily shelled by Nine gun wielding  men, suspected to be Igboho’s guards, six of which were armed with Ak-47 guns and while three others had pump action riffles.

The DSS also list out the items claimed to have been recovered  from Mr. Igboho’s residence and names of 13 suspects arrested in the house during the raiding, it was reported that more than 5 persons were kiiled during the attack and that several others were whisked away.

The group maintained that the attack on Igboho’s house is sad and this further indicates that Nigeria is fast returning to the era of military dictatorship, when anyone who expressed contrary opinion to the government’s positions would be fatally attacked.

“In as much as we are not in support of anybody being in unlawful possession of arms and armunitions, nor being a  party or subscribe to the idea of seccession as a way out to the current situations of insecurity and economic hardship facing the country, we will never keep mute on clampdown of any dissenting voices by the government and its agencies.

“The rights to freedom of expression or agitation for referendum by any Nigerian irrespective of their tribes must be respected, harassing innocent citizen demanding for their rights legitimately without breaking law and order is not ideal.

“Nigerians has right to peaceful protest, therefore, the idea of silencing peaceful agitators as exhibited in Igboho’s is unacceptable.” Said Omotehinse.
Share this on WhatsApp