Share this on WhatsAppBillions of people all over the world expectedly await the upcoming ‘Healing Streams With Pastor Chris’ with heightened expectations as they look forward to what has become the pre-eminent healing programme globally. A statement from the tbe Healing School Ministry Department of Loveworld Incorporated organuzers of the programme said that the 3-day program which kick-starts Friday July 9 will run through the weekend till Sunday July 11 comes close, millions of participants from over 100 countries across the world eagerly look forward to the event.
Also Read: Pastor Chris brings healing power of God in three days live streaming services to the world
The heightened expectations is not unconnected with testimonies that trailed the earlier event which took place in March this year where millions of people from across the world received healings for myriads of health challenges. It could be recalled that during the last programme some of the astounding miracles included a young Mongolian woman who had her leg grow out and her gait corrected, a South African who got a brand-new heart; and a young Nigerian that had his hearing fully restored.
This has heightened expectations for the upcoming programme as far higher numbers of participants have already pre-registered for the event. And to ensure that nobody is left behind, efforts are being made to ensure that the programme is beamed across the world to many venues.
Also Read: Over 5.3 Billion People Join Pastor Chris for First Global Day of Prayer in 2021
To this end, homes, offices, hospitals, prisons, orphanages, police stations, military bases, beauty salons, superstores, malls, parks, laundromats, workshops, conference centers are being converted to healing centres to beam the programme live to participants across every country on earth with plans to reach at least six billion people globally.  Pastor Chris has already prophecies that wherever people gather to participate in this program, the power of God will be transmitted right into that place and there will be extraordinary miracles following the mighty move of God’s Spirit.
Also Read: Fever-Pitch excitement as miracles precede Pastor Chris’ Global Healing Crusade
Participants have been enjoined to be expectant as God is going to heal “anything that hurts, anything that isn’t as it should, and anything that has kept you bound”. This program will do more than healing the sick, it will be an outpouring of grace and power that will affect your mental and physical health, as well as restore your finances and bring peace to the land.
To be part of this extraordinary event, participants are requested to do the following:
Register for the program, as an act of faith, with expectations to receive an abundance of blessing from the Lord.
Create a virtual healing center, so you can watch the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with friends, family, neighbors, and loved ones.
Send your unique link (obtained after you create a healing center) to contacts and invitees, for them to participate in the program with you.
For more information, kindly visit www.healingstreams.tv for more information.
 
Share this on WhatsApp