Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Army on Friday confirmed the killing of Major General Hassan Ahmed former Provost Marshal and the kidnap of his wife by bandits along the Lokoja-Abuja Highway.
General Hassan, posted to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre, was the Army Provost Marshal under former Chief of Army Staff Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai.
Confirming the incident in a statement, Director Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, said: “With a heavy heart, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Faruk Yahaya, Officers and Soldiers of the Nigerian Army regret to announce the passing on of Maj Gen Hassan Ahmed, a former Provost Marshall of the Nigerian Army.
READ ALSO: Army opens up on soldier who murdered undergraduate girlfriend
He said the murdered senior officer was travelling with his in-laws when he was ambushed by the gunmen who sprang out from bush at both sides of the road, shooting directly at his car.
“The sad incident occurred when the senior officer’s vehicle was attacked by gunmen while transiting along Lokoja – Abuja road yesterday 15 July 2021”.
The statement added: “A delegation from the Army Headquarters led by the Chief of Policy and Plans (Army) Maj. Gen Anthony Omozoje has visited the widow and other members of the bereaved family.
READ ALSO: Gunmen kill Army General on Abuja-Lokoja highway
“Members of the Nigerian Army Officers’ Wives Association (NAOWA) led by the Deputy National President, Mrs Stella Omozoje have also visited the family to console with them.
“The remains of the deceased senior officer will be accorded a befitting burial at the Lungi Barracks Cemetery on Friday 16 July 2021 by 10:00 am”.
Ahmed and his wife were coming from Okene when they were attacked.
“They opened fire on his vehicle, he died. The driver pretended to be dead from the wound he sustained, so they took the wife away”, the family source said.
Until his death, Ahmed, army number N/9698 was the Director at the Army Headquarters in Abuja.
The military authorities were yet to speak on Ahmed’s death as at the time of filing this report.
Share this on WhatsApp