Share this on WhatsApp
By Abba Dukawa






The APC  Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) had made a great achievement in  healing the wounds of party members by  repositioned  the party for  Nigerians and progressive-minded partisans. it  is an understatement to say life has returned to the party considering bubbling nature of a once abandoned ruling party national secretariat.

Evidently,CECPC  witnesses the fortunes of the party drastically improved after  reduced by seven states to PDP  in addition to a badly managed governorship election victory in Bayelsa state.  It is commendable that committee has brought back many aggrieved party members and even reconciled many prominent party members  across the country and  both critical stakeholders have resolved their differences in favour of party interest.


APC enjoying gale of defections but the party must re-oil its winning machine through ideas and leadership vision. Despite this defections it is important for the party to continue its winning ways across the county.  In addition that party delegates and other critical stakeholders must ensure that their   produce elected NWC  that  possesses the top qualities required for the upcoming convention. To keep APC  intact after the convention and continue its winning ways across the county in 2023 election.









Can CECPC accommodates  interests  of these bigwigs decampee politicians as its able to  brought all contending interests under one roof and achieved true reconciliation across the 36 states and FCT.  Can the interim leadership manage the gale of defections of opposition party members and ensure their abide by the party rules and regulations contains in the party constitution.

Another critical challenge is not wooing  streak of opposition party bigwigs politicians to the party  but accommodating their interests during and after the convention. For the  CECPC to avoid the repeat of party leadership in 2015 mistakes of  losing  the control of party  after the party success of defeated the  sitting president that winning cheeriest  contributed to  lack of  party discipline from low and high members.



In spite of this massive bigwigs decampee to the party  party members  expects that  CECPC must continue instilling party discipline and cohesion should be sacrosanct and imbibed by members both old and new members.

 However, party members expect Governor Buni and other members to remain team players at this critical stage of their assignment.  There is no doubt the committee has rescued the party from an imminent collapse. The committee broke the jinx in revalidation of party membership registration exercise which made APC to have a comprehensive membership register.




So far, so good within the year  of the APC Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Committee’s efforts in charting a new course for the party started yielding positive result by wooing in the governors of Zamfara,  Ebonyi and Cross River states. Chairman Atiku Abubakar Presidential campaign organization, former Ogun state Governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, and and Lt. Gen. Ihejirika have joined APC. Others are two former speakers of House of Representatives – Yakubu Dogara and Dimeji Bankole, Barnabas Gemade former PDP chairman, among others. All these success stories of APC caretaker/extra-ordinary convention committee are commendable.

Similarly, the mass defections to the APC is a signpost of the achievement made by Buni’s led committee  has created in the APC by accomodating all interests and ensuring peace, unity, fairness, equity, justice, inclusion and entrenching internal democracy. In spite of this success story  made by CECPC toward more consolidating  the emerging success in uniting the party and ensure competent National Working Committee emerge as a  only variable tool to make the party a great again.



Finally  All Progressives Congress  has extended the tenure of Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC)  to another six months this is clear confidence reposed on them. Despite this  party’s members  faith  on them  it is important for the committee to conduct a credible and acceptable convention devoid  litigations and complaint from other  eyes NWC seats and  Need to  get things done properly.







Dukawa writes in from Kano abbahydukawa@gmail.com 










Share this on WhatsApp