Share this on WhatsApp





Fighter aircraft deployed by the Nigerian military have been combing some communities in Delta State and raining strikes on forests which are suspected to be hideouts of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). 

The National Daily learnt that there is panic in communities such as Anwai in Asaba, Ugwuwaosu and Ugbolu as the military aircraft rained strikes.
Residents have said the aircraft they sighted flew low over houses.
“The helicopters passed two times this morning and then we heard booms. Why are they targeting non-existent IPOB and where were they when faceless Fulani herdsmen wrote a threat letter to attack Delta?
“The military aircraft has been disturbing the serenity of our communities and this should stop. We have babies, small children and aged persons who can die from shock,” a resident lamented.
The state Commissioner of Police, Muhammed Ari, confirmed that a security team led by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) led an operation where some IPOB was bombed in Delta State.
Earlier, Ari had said the police used helicopters in the state capital around lllah to disperse members of IPOB and send a signal to them that the command is in charge.
He said, “Illah is the base of IPOB. They come from Onitsha, Anambra State to regroup in Illah. We must tell them they are not welcomed in the state. Delta State would be hot for them. Once we identify them from the air, we shall make sure we send them parking and if care is not taken, deal with them the way they want.”
But the acting police public relations officer, DSP Bright Edafe, described the tension in the area as a hoax.
Edafe said people were just spreading rumours, insisting that there was nothing like an attack in the community.
“There is nothing like that in Okpanam, the area is peaceful. If they hear a gunshot, they will begin to speculate about what is not happening. I can tell you that what is going on in Okpanam is a situation issue which I will not discuss in public,” Edafe said.
Residents in the state capital, Asaba and neighbouring towns including Okpanam have become more security conscious since last month’s anonymous letter threatening to attack Asaba and Agbor if Governor Ifeanyi Okowa does not withdraw his support for the ban on open grazing in the southern part of the country.
The bombing caused tension in Asaba, the capital of Delta State, especially parts of lllah community, Oshimili North local government area as a combined team of policemen and military officers used helicopters to raid the area.







Share this on WhatsApp