Share this on WhatsApp 
 
A member representing Ekiti, Irepodun, Isin, Oke-ero Federal constituency at the House of Reps, AbdulRaheem Tunji Olawuyi Ajuloopin has accused the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed as being frivolous and petty.
Recall that Lai Mohammed had sometimes ago accused the lawmaker of embezzling N70 million from the 2018 by-election campaign fund.
However, Ajuloopin at a press briefing in Ilorin accused the Mohammed of being economical with the truth, petty and resorting to politics of pull him down.
Giving details by the details of what transpired, Ajuloopin stated that, a North Central State Governor reached out to him on personal ground to donate toward the 2018 by-election and when the minister got wind of the donation, he immediately reached out to him asking him to bring the money.
READ ALSO: Understanding Lai Muhammed’s allegory of the opposition
“However, I immediately contacted a few of our trusted party elders to intimate them of the development, but they counselled me against sending the money to the minister based on his antecedent with money.”
According to him, also, on my own, I personally gave Alhaji Lai Mohammed the sum of N32.5m, with the full knowledge of the former party chairman, Bashiru Bolarinwa, for election purposes; the minister and Bashir Bolarinwa cannot deny this except there is no conscience left.
Ajuloopin said that it would also interest the public to know that one senior Federal Government official told Governor AbdulRazaq who was then the candidate of the party that Lai Mohammed reached out to him and claimed that there was no money for the bye-election campaign in Kwara.
 The lawmaker, who declined to name the official, said he pleaded with the Governorship candidate (now the Governor) and asked him to release N50 million to the minister, which was released but the money was never accounted for nor used for campaign purposes as envisaged.
He stated that if anyone was to be accused of mismanaging campaign fund, it should be nobody other than Lai Mohammed, who till date could not give details of how the money was spent.
READ ALSO: Appointment: You’re wrong, Lai Muhammed tells Okupe
He added that the minister’s allegation only showed that he was not on the ground during the by-election to know the enormity of work and resources put into winning the elections but whose interest was to corner every available money donated for the purpose.
This according to him suggests that the minister has something up his sleeves and also has an axe to grind with him but chose that discredited platform to air his grievances.
He urged the minister to be more cautious and elderly in his approach because those who live in a glass house should not throw stone.

Share this on WhatsApp