Share this on WhatsAppSequel the attempt on the life of Hon. Olawale Rauf Age-Sulaiman, the state’s legislator representing Amuwo Odofin 2 on July 8, during a political rally ahead of the forthcoming local government election, the Lagos Assembly reiterates call for establishment of state police.
The legislators, clearly piqued by the development also called on the state Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu to urgently increase the number of officers in the Neighbourhood Safety Corps and adequately equip the security agency for protection of lives and properties of residents.
The House further resolved that the Governor should call on the commissioner of police in the state to intensify efforts to secure the state.
The resolutions of the lawmakers was hinged on the fact that the lawmaker escape death by stroke of luck, although another chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), named Kayode Samuel (Ekpo) who stood beside him, was hit by the assailants bullet and later confirmed dead.
Raising the issue as a ‘matter of urgent public importance’, Hon. Age-Sulaiman narrated how he escaped death by the whiskers from gunshot for which he was allegedly targeted in Oriade Local Council Development Area (LCDA).
The lawmaker later reeled out five prayers that formed the resolution of the house.
“I heard some people making noise while the campaign was on and I called for calm but I didn’t know that there were some elements who came with another intention.
“We were about going out when somebody told me not to go out and two persons stood beside me and right there I heard a gunshot sound and the next person beside me shouted my leg with blood-stains,” Said Rauf.
Commenting on the incident, Hon. Rotimi Olowo, condemned the use of thugs to settle political matters. He also urged that security in the country be firmed up through the establishment of state police.
“The commissioner of police should investigate the issue,” he said adding that politicians and other Nigerians are not safe at this period.
While Hon. Yinka Ogundimu suggested that the Governor should be called upon to protect lives and property by asking the commissioner of police to intensify efforts, his colleague, Hon Tobun Abiodun, urged people to desist from crime.
“Killing one individual can cause a family enternal sorrow,” he said as he used the opportunity to call for the establishment of state police.
“I know our government is very responsible, but we want to use this opportunity to call on the Governor again,” he said.
Hon. Adedamola Kasunmu, noted that with the increasing crime rate in the society, the call for the establishment of state police for the protection of lives cannot be over-flogged.
He urged the other Houses of Assembly in the federation to start calling for state police so that the National Assembly would take it serious.
In his contribution, Hon. Setonji David said those against state police are enemies of the country.
Hon. Rotimi Abiru notes that there is a high level of insecurity in the Land.
“No doubt there is a high level of insecurity in the land,Lagos is one of the safest state so far, but it is important to step up on security, lives are lost everyday in different circumstances.
“Governor needs to step up his game for protection of lives and properties, proactive steps need be taken to get rescue while in danger,public space need have a CCTV cameras, there ought to be dedicated numbers of head security operatives to call in such situation. Abiru submits.
Other lawmakers who spoke included Desmond Elliot, Kehinde Joseph.
Deputy Speaker of the House, Hon. Wasiu Eshilokun-Sanni, who presided over the sitting on behalf of the Speaker, Rt. Hon. (Dr) Mudashiru Obasa, said the incident was shocking. He also commiserated with the family of the deceased.
Share this on WhatsApp