Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) is in a race against time to fine-tune plans for the conduct of the local government elections, scheduled for this Weekend, July 24th.
It was gathered that the Commission in the last few weeks has been meeting critical stakeholders to get their buy-in in order to ensure the exercise is free and fair.
Speaking at a forum in Ikeja, Chairman of LASIEC, Justice Ayotunde Philips said measures have been taken to ensure the upcoming election is free, fair and credible, including “Oath of Neutrality” taken by LASIEC staffs which she said is an agreement that has been signed by their adhoc staff to ensure proper conduct during the elections.
READ ALSO: Lagos LG polls: APC candidates in alleged certificate forgery scandal
According to her, misconduct from any staff will be sanctioned, warning that any misconduct from them will be dealt with.
She said that meetings have been ongoing with security operatives to ensure smooth voting exercise during the elections at all polling units.
Philips said that the reason for the forum is to interact and interface with all stakeholders of the elections adding that it is also an opportunity to ask and get information on elections and the electoral processes.
READ ALSO: LG polls: We’re ready to ensure safety of electorates – Ogun CP
She underlined the need for people to participate more in the elections as there has been just about 17 percent out of the total registered voters exercising their voting rights during Local government elections.
Also, she said arrangements are already in place for the smooth distribution of non-sensitive electoral materials, while ad-hoc staff will be trained this weekend to familiarize them with the process so as to minimize hitches on Election Day.
Meanwhile, there is palpable confidence brewing in both camps of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as well as the opposition, the Peoples Democratic Party, on their chances in the elections.
In the last few weeks, both parties stepped up campaigns across the 20 Local governments and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), in its bid to control the local governments ahead of the 2023 general elections.
READ ALSO: PDP unveils flag-bearers for July 24 Lagos LG polls
While the APC will be seeking to sustain its 100 percent grip across the local councils in the State, the PDP is keen on making inroads to reduce the total control of the ruling party.
Publicity Secretary of the PDP in Lagos, Taofik Gani, expressed confidence in his party causing an upset in the council elections, noting that the party intends to use the exercise to show its capabilities ahead of the 2023 general elections.

Share this on WhatsApp