Weapons allegedly recovered from Igboho's residence.
        
 

Share this on WhatsApp

The Department of State Services has opened up on why it invaded the Ibadan residence of Sunday Adeyemo a.k.a Sunday Igboho in the early hours of Thursday, July 2nd, 2021.
At a press briefing at the National Headquarters of the DSS in Abuja, DSS’s spokesman, Dr.Peter Afunanya, said a joint team of security operatives raided the residence based on intelligence that he had stockpiled arms in the place.
He said on approach to the residence, the team came under heavy gun attack by nine men, suspected to be Igboho’s guards. Six of them were armed with AK-47 guns and three others, with Pump-Action rifles.
“In the course of the exchange, two of Igboho’s armed men were gunned down while the rest were subdued and arrested.  Only one operative who was shot by the assailants on his right hand sustained injury. He has however received medical attention and is very stable.
READ ALSO: Breaking: Unknown Soldiers invade Sunday Igboho’s home
According to him, item recovered at the house included seven AK-47 assault rifles; three Pump Action guns; thirty fully charged AK-47 magazines; five thousand rounds of 7.62mm ammunition; five Cutlasses, one Jack knife, one Pen Knife; two Pistol holsters; and wallet containing five US Dollars in one Dollar denomination; local and international driver’s licences in his name, ATM Cards, a German residence permit No. YO2N6K1NY bearing his name; and several other items.
“Aside the items recovered from the building, about thirteen suspects including twelve males and one female were arrested and brought to Abuja.
Dr. Afunanya added that Sunday Igboho and his group, in the guise of campaign for self-determination, have become well-armed and determined to undermine public order.
READ ALSO: Stay away from Lagos, Odumosu warns Igboho, Akintoye
He also alleged that the five AK-47 assault rifles recovered from the building are suspected to be those collected from men from Nigerian Customs and Immigration personnel at Idi Iroko, Ogun State some time ago.
“Consequently, ADEYEMO/IGBOHO is advised to turn himself in to the nearest security agency. Those cheering and eulogising him may appeal to or advise him to do the needful. He should surrender himself to the appropriate authorities. He or anyone can never be above the law. Meanwhile, those arrested will be charged accordingly,” he added.

Share this on WhatsApp