Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Some Yoruba leaders both at home and in diaspora are working hard to prevent the extradition of Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho who was arrested on Monday night in Benin Republic to Nigeria.
Igboho was arrested at the Cotonou Cadjehoun Airport on Monday night by security forces in Benin.
This came a few days after the Federal Government placed him on a “stop list” after it was gathered that he was trying to acquire a new passport to flee the country
Reacting to the arrest, leader of the umbrella body of Yoruba self-determination groups, Ilana Omo Oodua (IOO), Professor Emeritus Banji Akintoye who disclosed this, said Yoruba Patriots are working hard to provide assistance for Ighoho towards preventing his extradition to Nigeria.
READ ALSO: BREAKING: Igboho arrested abroad, to be repatriated to Nigeria
He called on all Yoruba people within and beyond the shores of Nigeria to ensure their ancestral land is not defeated by invaders.
“I and other Yoruba Patriots who are immediately available are now working to provide the assistance necessary to ensure that nobody will be able to do to him anything unlawful or primitive and to prevent him from being extradited into Nigeria which is strongly possible.
“What the situation now calls for is that the Yoruba nation at home and in Diapora must stand strong, resolved that neither Sunday Igboho nor any other Yoruba person will henceforth be subjected to inhuman or dehumanising treatment of any kind.
“Fortunately, Benin Republic is reliably a land of law where the authorities responsibly obey the law. We have secured the services of a leading and highly respected lawyer whom we can confidently rely on.
READ ALSO: FG reveals next move against Sunday Igboho
“For a start, we must all see to it now that Sunday Ighoho will get his freedom back so as to be able to move and operate as a free person. We all know he has committed no crime.”
He added: “We know that some people are trying to suppress or even eliminate him only because he stood up to defend his kinsmen, women and children who are being massively killed and raped in their ancestral home Land; who are having their assets and means of livelihood destroyed, and who are facing ethnic cleansing and even genocide without having the benefit of protection by the rulers of their country.


Share this on WhatsApp