Share this on WhatsAppThe renowned man of God, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, of the Crist Embassy, is set for another divine encounter of the healing power of Giod to the world. The three days programme will be revealing the glory of the Lord to the whole world through the July Healing Streams Live Healing Services with the Man of God, scheduled for Friday, 9 July to Sunday 11 July 2021. The online global phenomenon will be beamed live to a teeming global audience across the world via www.healingstreams.tv/3days and the Healing School mobile app. 6.00pm (GMT+1) daily.

From inception, the Healing Streams Live Healing Services have sponsored utter joy and restored hope through the diverse operations of the gifts of the Spirit and healing ministrations. Diverse healings were recorded at the ministrations – cancers were dematerialized, limbs grown, migraines vanquished, tumors disappeared and many other awe-inspiring miracles were revealed  in testimonies. Countless lives from all walks of life, races, colors, including children, experienced myriads of notable testimonies worldwide in the March edition, generating more expectations and hope at the July healing services.
Also Read: Fever-Pitch excitement as miracles precede Pastor Chris’ Global Healing Crusade
Previous testimonies include the five-year-old Michelle Sunny who was released from the grasp of pain and anguish, since her healing from a huge mass diagnosed as cystic hygroma at the Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris. Baby Michelle and her parents, it was highlighted,  now live in perpetual joy and happiness, no more emotionally scarred. Another testifier, Lise-Marie Muller, shared her life-changing experience at the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris, where she became freed from severe back pain after her encounter with the healing power of God. The condition that affected her work and her family opened a new chapter, replete with ease, peace, and joy for Lisa when Pastor Chris spoke healing to her body! “Jesus touched me personally and gave me my life back!” She enthused. Hallelujah!
Also Read: Over 5.3 Billion People Join Pastor Chris for First Global Day of Prayer in 2021
While the previous sessions have ushered the manifestation of God’s power and glory all over the world, the upcoming edition will be far greater as the glory of the latter house will surpass the former. It promises to be replete with healing, salvation, and restoration. It’s a time for faith-stirring exhortations by Pastor Chris, as well as glorious times of worship in songs by the Loveworld Singers.
Indeed, the Healing Streams Live Healing Services is three days of being with the Lord.
Participants were encouraged to get ready to be launched into increased grace to walk in divine health.  Members were urged to Spread the news, and invite everyone in their sphere of contact. Peoples of the world were encouraged to Register at www.healingstreams.tv/3days and clear their schedules to participate for the three days to experience the season of the supernatural in this historic crusade.
Others were counseled  also set up a healing center (physical or virtual) to host others in participation. They were advised to sign up, using the following links. Onsite: www.healingstreams.tv/vc/HC Virtual: www.healingstreams.tv/virtual
 
Share this on WhatsApp