Share this on WhatsApp

A primary school teacher in a private school in Aba, the commercial nerve of Abia State simply identified as Mr. Nathaniel, has been nabbed by operatives of the State Police Command for defiling a minor in his care.
It was gathered that the teacher started abusing the 10-year primary five pupils in January this year.
It was learnt that he threatened to deal with the child if she ever mentioned it to her parents.
The child was said to have summoned the courage to let the cat out of the bag last week when she approached the mother and narrated the incident to her.
READ ALSO: Police makes Ojota tense for secessionists defying Igboho’s Saturday order
The father of the victim, Mr. Ignatius Onyechekwe when contacted confirmed the illicit activities of the classroom teacher.
According to Mr. Onyechekwe, they took their daughter to a popular private hospital off Georges road in Aba where it was confirmed that there was penetration in the victim’s private part.
When contacted, the proprietor of the school, Pastor Israel Chibunna confirmed that the staff is being detained at the Aba Area Command where he is being investigated by the police on the claims by the Onyechekwe’s family that the staff raped their daughter.
Pastor Chibunna who stated that the staff had in response to a query issued to him denied ever carrying out such an act.
The school proprietor, who said that he was not going to speak further on the matter as the police was still investigating the allegation, disclosed that the staff has been suspended from work pending the conclusion of the matter.
READ ALSO: How 25-year old man extorted N7m from woman – Police
The Police Public Relations Officer, SP Geoffrey Ogbonna confirmed the arrest and detention of Mr. Nathaniel in their custody.
According to Ogbonna, investigation into the matter is still ongoing as the police await the outcome of the medical report from the police clinic.
He added that the suspect will be taken to court as soon as investigation into the matter is concluded.
The case at the time of filing the report is being handled by the human rights section of the Aba Area Command.
Share this on WhatsApp