Share this on WhatsAppThe Deputy Governor of Delta State, Kingsley B. Otuaro, has felicitated with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State on his 62nd birthday anniversary.
Otuaro wishing Okowa happy birthday, celebrated the governor as an exemplary leader, mentor and boss. The deputy governor commended Governor Okowa for everything he represents, which according to him include peace, accountability, and forthrightness.
Deputy Governor Otuaro in a statement highlighted: “Your Excellency, Sir, as much as you called me your dependable lieutenant, I must say, it is a privilege to call you my Boss and dear mentor; serving with you in one of the highest offices in the land.
“Thank you for everything you represent, peace, accountability, and forthrightness.”
The deputy governor, accordingly, declared: “First in the list of my birthday message to you is that; I want to sincerely thank God for your life for these past 6 years as Governor of the big heart, Delta State, and keeping the promise of peace and prosperity you made to the good people of Delta State.
“Sir, working with you is a great blessing — the last six years have been filled with lessons of hope, courage, wit, hard work, determination, prudence, excellence, and innovation; breaking through the tides of resource scarcity occasioned by dwindling oil prices, ensuring inclusivity in governance, enthroning peace and balancing the demands of infrastructural and human capital development across the State. We, Deltans can’t be prouder having you as our Governor.
“Thank you for blazing the trail for our dear State.
“It is an honour and a thing of joy to be part of your success story of inclusive governance. I am grateful for the confidence you have reposed in me as your deputy over these years.
“Thank you for the unequivocal and profound lessons of leadership; especially preparing the youths for the future and securing the future of the next generation; which you have well-articulated and continue to pursue through the numerous youth-eccentric entrepreneurship, education, and technology initiatives and investments.
“Sir; on behalf of my family and the entire people of Delta State; I want to congratulate you on the occasion of your 62nd birthday anniversary and pledge my unflinching support towards the full delivery #StrongerDelta completion agenda. It is my sincere prayer that God will grant you good health, divine protection, and greater impact space for many years of productive and rewarding service to Delta and Nigeria at large.
“I celebrate and appreciate your service of love and sacrifice.
“Once again, happy birthday, Sir, and many happy returns.
Share this on WhatsApp