Share this on WhatsApp 
Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State may have been reneging on his earlier assurance that the state government would be collaborating with the Oba of Benin, His Royal Majesty, Oba Ewuare II, and other stakeholders in Benin Kingdom to build the Benin Royal Museum proposed by the Oba.
Ironically, Obaseki had been insisting on diverting the destination of looted Benin artifacts anticipated to be returned from Europe from the institutions of the Benin Kingdom of which the Oba of Benin is the custodian of the cultural heritage.
Governor Obaseki has continued to insist on keeping the Benin artifacts to the custody of the Legacy Restoration Trust, however, while the Oba of Benin had before now proposed the building of Benin Royal Museum in the precincts of the Palace.
The governor had in 2019 declared that the Edo State Government is collaborating with the Oba of Benin, His Royal Majesty, Oba Ewuare II, and other stakeholders in the Benin Kingdom to build the Benin Royal Museum.
Governor Obaseki had in a broadcast on his social media page, explained why the state government was joining the Palace in building the Benin Royal Museum. He noted that the museum will conserve the artifacts and make the state a destination of choice for tourists from across the globe.

Governor Obaseki at a breakfast meeting with the Benin Dialogue Group (BDG) at the Government House, G.R.A., Benin City, in 2019, had declared: “the state government is collaborating with the Benin Monarch, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, and other stakeholders to build a world-class royal museum to hold stolen artifacts from the Benin kingdom.
“The museum will conserve the artifacts and make the state a destination of choice for tourists from across the globe.”
Governor Obaseki had commended members of the Benin Dialogue Group for engaging with the state government on efforts to construct the Benin Royal Museum as proposed by the Oba of Benin. The governor maintained that artworks from the Benin Kingdom have gained global recognition with potential to develop the state’s tourism sector.
Governor Obaseki cited museums in advanced countries of the world from Europe to America where there is always the African section, noting that artworks from the Benin Kingdom are always seen on display.
Back in 2019, Governor Obaseki generated no controversy on the building of the Benin Royal Museum proposed by Oba Ewuare II. However, as the German government revealed the decision to return substantial numbers of the 1,130 Benin artifacts looted by the colonialists from Benin Kingdom, the governor hurriedly registered controversial firms to take custody of the artifacts and build a world class museum contrary to the planned Benin Royal Museum.
Share this on WhatsApp