Share this on WhatsAppGovernor Babagana Zulum of Borno State on Wednesday expressed his endorsement of the resolution of southern governors at their meeting in Lagos last Monday on the rotation of the president to the south in 2023 after the second tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari.
Governor Zulum speaking on Channels TV morning programme on Wednesday maintained that the southern leaders have the right to demand for zoning of the president in 2023. He further said that the power rotation to the south would ensure fairness, equity for the unity of the country.
“I have said it times without number that I, Professor Babagana Zulum, I am of the view that the presidency should go to the south in the year 2023 because the unity of our country is very important.
“Secondly, inclusivity is very important. Thirdly, I am in the APC. Six or seven years ago, APC had zoned the presidency to northern Nigeria based on the agreement that in the year 2023, the presidency should go to the south,” Governor Zullum declared.
While supporting that demand of the southern leaders for power rotation, the Borno governor cautioned against provocative statements by people who insist that the zone must produce the next president. The governor cautioned state and political actors not to overheat the polity in the build up to the 2023 general elections.
“But again, this is politics. We are supposed to meet and discuss this issue among ourselves, among the political class.
“This statement that people are saying that the president must go to the south, I want them to remove the word ‘must.’,” Zullum said.
The governor reiterated that his support for power shift to the south is not attached to personal political interests. He maintained that he has no interest in becoming the vice president of the country in 2023.
Governor Zullum declared: “And I have said it before, I am not interested in becoming the vice president of the country, nor the president of the nation but I want to say the right thing.”
Share this on WhatsApp