Share this on WhatsApp

The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Major General Faruk Yahaya has effected changes in appointments among top Generals and field commanders in the Army.
In a statement signed by Director of Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, new Principal Officers were appointed as well as deployment of new field commanders and other key staff.
The Commandant Nigerian Army Armoured School, Maj Gen BO Sawyer is the new Director Defence Information, while the Chief of Operations Army, Maj Gen IM Yusuf becomes the Commandant Nigerian Defence Academy.
Maj Gen TA Gagariga will move from Army Headquarters Department of Policy and Plans to Nigerian Army Artillery Corps as Corps Commander Artillery; Maj Gen VO Ezugwu of Training and Doctrine Command becomes the Commander Infantry Corps.
READ ALSO: Major shake ups in Army, 11 Generals, other senior officers affected
Maj Gen MA Yekini is the new Chief of Defence Training and Operations; Maj Gen MS Yusuf will take over as Chief of Defence Standard and Evaluation.
The Chief of Civil – Military Affairs, Maj Gen AB Omozoje will take over as the Chief of Policy and Plans at the Army Headquarters.
Maj Gen SO Olabanji becomes the Commander Training and Doctrine Command, Maj Gen OA Akintade is the new Chief of Army Logistics.
Maj Gen OT Akinjobi takes over as Chief of Operations (Army), Maj Gen JA Ataguba becomes the Chief of Army Standard and Evaluation.
READ ALSO: Nigerian Army Arrests Youths in Enugu Communities Over Expulsion Of Herdsmen, Cattle
Major Generals KI Mukhtar and C Ofoche are Chief of Administration and Chief of Transformation and Innovation respectively. Maj Gen AB Ibrahim was named Chief of Training (Army).
The new field commanders are Maj Gen AK Ibrahim who takes over as the Force Commander Multi National Joint Task Force, N’Djamena.
Maj Gen IS Ali who becomes the General Officer Commanding 3 Division will double as the Commander Special Task Force Operation Safe Haven.
Share this on WhatsApp