Share this on WhatsAppA former Senate leader, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, an All Progressives Congress (APC) member from Cross River State, on Thursday welcomed Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State after his defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the APC. The senator urged the governor to be transparent and accountable, noting that the attributes are of high value to the ruling party.
National Daily gathered that the two party leaders had rivalries while they were both members of the PDP. Ndoma-Egbe was said to dump the PDP for the APC after being frustrated by Governor Ayade from seeking re-election to the National Assembly.
Ndoma-Egba, in a statement indicated that he expects Governor Ayade’s defection would strengthen the APC in Cross River State and encourage internal democracy in the party. Ndoma-Egba enjoined Ayade to be consultative, inclusive, democratic in decision making in the party.
The former Senate Leader in the statement congratulated Governor Ayade on his defection to the APC. He stated: “My expectation is that your coming will enrich our internal democracy and I enjoin you to be consultative, inclusive, democratic, transparent and accountable because these are the hallmarks of the All Progressives Congress family.
“I also expect that your presence in the APC will further strengthen the party and improve our electoral fortunes in Cross River State.
“I have no doubts that the APC family in the State has received you with open arms and will work with you to reposition our dear State on the path of unprecedented socioeconomic and sociopolitical development.
“On behalf of myself and political associates, I heartily congratulate Your Excellency, Senator Prof. Ben Ayade, Governor of Cross River State on your well thought out decision to formally defect to the All Progressives Congress (APC) today and join the league of Progressive Governors in Nigeria.
“Your Excellency will recall that Cross River State has always been in the mainstream of Nigeria politics. There is no gainsaying the fact that the past 6 years of being in the opposition has impacted the State negatively, even though you have consciously navigated the ship of governance in sync with the APC-led Federal Government.
“As a State, we can ill-afford to remain in the opposition. I commend you for recognizing this fact and doing the needful for the good of our dear State.
“Our core objective remains forging a stronger, united and formidable APC that will deliver the dividends of good governance to all Cross Riverians irrespective of political affiliation, ethnicity and religion. I trust that you are well in tandem with this.
“Once again, congratulations and welcome to the All Progressives Congress.”
Share this on WhatsApp