Share this on WhatsApp

Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has given reasons why the state government announced the relaxation of the curfew in Obio-Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas as well as Port Harcourt International Airport from 8:30pm to 6am beginning from today, Sunday.
Wike in a state broadcast on Saturday evening said measures the state government had undertaken so far to check the recent attacks on security checkpoints and the killing of some security personnel yielded positive results.
He said: “Thank heavens, those responsible for the premeditated ambushes and murders of security personnel in the state have been apprehended and are now facing the bitter venom of our laws as none that is proven to be criminally liable will escape the fury and crushing impact of justice.
READ ALSO: 2023: Voters humiliate Yahaya Bello in popularity contest after gov boasted
“We wish to reassure every citizen and resident that we are able, willing and ready to act directly and decisively, and at any time, with the full weight of our government to forestall every security threat to our state from any person, group or quarters.”
He explained that after yet another review of the prevailing security situation and in particular, the effect of the curfew on citizens, the State Security Council decided to relax the curfew a little for Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas as well as the Port Harcourt International Airport.
Wike said: “Consequently, the current night time curfew in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas will now be effective from 8.30 p.m. to 6.00 a.m. from Sunday 16th May 2021, while the starting and closing time-frame of 7.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m. still continues to apply to the prevailing curfew in the rest of the 21 local government areas of the state until further notice.
“The nation’s security agencies are on ground to strictly enforce the State-wide curfew as reviewed and arrest and prosecute any intransigent person or group that may fail to comply. Our state; our heritage is no one else’s property to assault and destroy at will.
READ ALSO:Sunday Igboho boosts Osun rally by Youths demanding Oduduwa nation
“It goes without saying therefore, that every citizen and resident bears some level of responsibility to protect it from the injurious hegemonic tendencies of strangers and ensure the peace, safety and security of everyone.”
The governor appealed to residents of the state to inform security agents about those behind recent attacks, particularly, their conclaves, plots and potential assaults.
He said: “We can assure you that with such vital and credible intelligence gathering and information sharing with the government and the security agencies, we have the capacity, will and the strength to overwhelm and completely rout these faceless terrorists and neutralize their threat to our God-given rights to live in peace and go about with our daily lives without any cause to fear about our safety and security in any part of our own land.”

Share this on WhatsApp