Share this on WhatsApp

No fewer than 10 persons have been killed in the last one week and several others injured due to series of gas explosion in Abeokuta, Ogun state, given rise to fears that the state may have been flooded with adulterated gas and expired gas cylinders
In the latest explosion that happened on Thursday at Marque event centre within the Obasanjo Presidential Library no fewer than two persons were killed at the Marque event centre within the Obasanjo Presidential Library when technicians were topping up gas into the air conditioner.
Similarly on May 18, a technician and a yet-to-be-identified person were also confirmed dead and three others were said to have sustained injuries as gas explosion rocked Conference Hotel in Abeokuta on Tuesday.
READ ALSO: Nigerians disagree with Keyamo for celebrating decampee Gov Ayade as great achiever
The hotel, located at the Water Corporation headquarters junction, in Ogun capital, is owned by a former governor of the state, Gbenga Daniel.
Confirming the incident, the Hotel Facility Manager, Tunde Osinubi, in a statement, said the explosion occurred as a result of a fake gas cylinder used while servicing a revolving door at the hotel.
Before then, on May 12 no fewer than six persons, including an infant, confirmed dead when a refrigerator gas cylinder exploded in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital.
According to a well-placed source within the Obasanjo Library, there are fears that the gas might be adulterated leading to the incessant explosions.
“We have reported the incidents, and we’re hoping the necessary agency saddled with the responsibility of regulating the gas sector will look into this and find a lasting solution.
“It’s no longer a pure coincidences to have four explosions within a week in the same town. It’s just not adding up,” the source said.
READ ALSO:Intelligence community clarifies Shekau’s death, BH-ISWAP long-running battle before, after
According to a former National Coordinator of the Women in LPG Group, Mrs. Nkechi Obi, bringing fake cylinders into the country “is like bringing explosives into homes, which can be deadly.’’
In case of an explosion, an expert advised that people should run for their life like an antelope pursued by a lion and evacuate everybody in the house.
Another precaution outlined by the experts includes putting the gas cylinder outside the kitchen because leaving it inside the kitchen is a suicide mission waiting to explode any moment.
They also advised that ventilation is very important in protecting the cooking gas from sun.
It is a global standard that cylinders are taken for reassessment every five years, but in Nigeria the LPG cylinders are mostly metallic with a lifespan of roughly 15 years which should be destroyed after the expiry date.


Share this on WhatsApp