Share this on WhatsApp

Former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode has warned Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan to leave Nigeria out of his jihad against and his attempt to teach Israel a lesson.
Recall that Erdogan had on Friday phoned Buhari, seeking his support for Palestine in the battle against Israel.
A statement issued by the Turkey Presidency said Erdogan drew attention to Turkey’s efforts exerted in order for the international community to teach the necessary lesson to unlawful, unjust and unscrupulous Israel due to its attacks against Palestine.
READ ALSO: Ganduje tells Fulani herdsmen to relocate to Kano from South
The presidency said Erdogan voiced his belief that Nigeria would show solidarity with Palestinians in this rightful cause.
“Drawing attention to Turkey’s efforts exerted in order for the international community to teach the necessary lesson to unlawful, unjust and unscrupulous Israel due to its attacks against Palestine, President Erdogan voiced his belief that Nigeria would show solidarity with Palestinians in this rightful cause,” it stated.
But reacting to the statement, Fani-Kayode said President Buhari would be wise not to condemn Israel or join in any reckless adventure against the Jewish state otherwise a terrible price will be paid.
READ ALSO: Government increases suspicion on vaccine agenda, lures citizens with incentives to accept coronavirus vaccine
He said there are over 100 million Christians in Nigeria who love & revere Israel. “We pray for her every day & bless her. If we are forced to choose between the Arabs & the Jews we would choose the Jews.
“Israel can & will never be defeated. If provoked she will bring all her enemies to their knees. We have enough problems of our own.
“Taking on the Jews would be an exercise in futility, would divide our country & would push us closer to greater conflict & possibly a civil war.
“Remember what happened in Lebanon in the 1980’s and 1990’s? God forbid it should happen here. A word is enough for the wise,” Fani-Kayode warned Buhari.
Tensions have been simmering for over a month between Israel and Palestine but last week they boiled over as violence exploded between both countries.
Thousands of rockets have been fired from Gaza and while Israel initially responded with airstrikes, its artillery began targeting positions in the blockaded Palestinian enclave.
Over 197 people, including 53 children have been killed in the crisis.
Share this on WhatsApp