Share this on WhatsApp 
Delta State government on Thursday told members of the National Assembly to cut short their recess and resume plenary to join in finding solutions to the intractable insecurity crisis in the country.
delta State Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu, in a media interaction on Delta TV flagship programme, “Morning Ride”, emphasized that it has become necessary to get the federal lawmakers back to work given the worsening security situation in all parts of the country. He stated that all tiers of government should synergize and close ranks in making the country safe for the masses and unsafe for those against the peace and development of the nation.
The Commissioner expressed that there is the need for the Nigerian government to seek foreign support in the fight against Boko Haram terrorists, bandits and killer Fulani herdsmen. Aniagwu commended the Southern Governors’ Forum for the 12 points Communique that has provided a road map in building a new Nigeria where peace will reign, in addition to the inclusiveness of all interest groups in the Nigerian project.
The Information Commissioner said that the various state governors in the South in enforcing the ban on open grazing, will activate relevant laws through their Houses of Assembly to implement the ban as a way to restore peace and order in various communities where armed herders have sacked people from their homes and farmlands.
The commissioner noted that ranching is the best mode herding instead of nomadic way of rearing cattle, pointing out that the crisis of food security is traceable to the incessant conflicts between farmers and armed herdsmen.
Aniagwu stated that the ongoing harvest of projects by the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in Delta State is in fulfillment of the governor’s electioneering campaign promises in 2015 and 2019.
“A lot of projects in different sectors were ripe for inauguration while many have also been inaugurated. The dream of building a stronger Delta in the second tenure of Governor Okowa is to bring the state up to speed with other states in advanced nations in terms of all round development,” the commissioner said.
Aniagwu thanked Deltans in both riverine and upland communities for their support so far, giving the assurance that no part of the state would be marginalised in the area of infrastructure, human capital development and empowerment.
Share this on WhatsApp