Share this on WhatsAppFrom Osazuwa Mike, Benin City
The Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has come under pressure to suspend some party leaders in the state who include High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, Chief Tom Ikimi, Mike Ogiadomhe, Charles Idahosa, Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu, Anselm Ojuzua, Mrs. Omolulu and others for anti-party activities. They were identified to have been  actively involved in anti-party campaigns for the dissolution of the State Working Committee, which failed after Governor Godwin Obaseki rescind the decision to dissolve the state EXCO.
Identified PDP members were said to have held secret meetings with Governor Obaseki where they all agreed that the state exco should be dissolved without the consensus of the leadership of the party and other notable stakeholders.
The plot to dissolve the state executive was not only illegal but also subjudice to the pending suit in court until the court delivers judgement.
The rejoinders written by some of the identified party members – Dokpesi, Mike Ogiadomhe and Tom Ikimi – were perceived as further proofs that they are actually working against the party in an illegal manner; the state PDP intends to use such as evidence against them. The embattled party members are being suspected of plotting to sell the PDP cheaply to Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu and his faction and, thereafter, move the entire party to APC for his 2024 governorship ambition in Edo State. The deputy governor was noted to have failed to win his ward or local government area in the November 2020 gubernatorial election in the state even as a sitting deputy governor.
Furthermore, Charles Idahosa had revealed that he and his team are compelled to return to APC as they did previously, after the to dissolve the PDP state executive failed.
Idahosa is being suspected not to have formally decamped from the APC to PDP in his unit or ward but has been having the loudest voice on party issues because he was recruited by the governor. His membership or loyalty to the PDP is questionable.
Mrs. Omolulu, PDP stakeholder from Owan, has remained adamant in the demand to dissolve the state exco even after Governor Obaseki had called for truce to find a way out after the failed coup. Omolulu is still campaigning vigorously that there must be ‘dissolution and integration’ of the PDP leadership as championed by the so-called new PDP without an iota of genuine mission. Omolulu was alleged to have been recruited alongside other members to insult Chief Dan Orbih, PDP South-South Chairman, for leading the party to resist and scuttle the illegal dissolution of the Edo State structure.
Omolulu was gathered to have contested for the PDP Publicity Secretary in Edo State but failed, losing to Hilary. She has since then declared war against Dan Orbih, blaming the party leader for her failure at the State Congress.
Meanwhile, a meeting was scheduled between Governor Obaseki and the State PDP Executive led by the State Chairman, Dr. Tony Azeigbemi, in Benin City.
 
Share this on WhatsApp