Share this on WhatsApp 
President Muhammadu Buhari while declaring three days mourning for the late Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, on Sunday evening, had a telephone conversation with the wife of the late Chief of Army Staff, Mrs. Fati Attahiru. The Nigerian President communicated his condolence to the family, extolling the virtues of the demised Chief of Army Staff.
The Senior Special Assistant om Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, in a statement revealed the details of President Buhari’s conversation with the wife of the late Chief of Army Staff.
Garba Shehu disclosed that President Buhari spoke with Fati Attahiru, praised military’s efforts to fight terrorism and banditry.
According to Garba Shehu, President Buhari described Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru, the late Chief of Army Staff, as an outstanding soldier and an institution builder, who fought valiantly for Nigeria until he breathed his last.
The SSA highlighted: “in a telephone conversation Sunday evening with Mrs. Fati Ibrahim Attahiru, wife of the late COAS, and the spouses of the other deceased officers through her, President Buhari hailed the sacrifices of the military men who lost their lives and the Armed Forces in general, saying that Nigerians will continue to appreciate and support the fearlessness with which our courageous soldiers are confronting the threats facing the nation.
“He gave the grieving spouses assurances that the nation will never forget the supreme sacrifice of their spouses, urging them to take solace in the surge of extraordinary feelings of emotions across regions, religions, and tribes all over the country in appreciation of their sacrifices.”
He added that the President had earlier given directives to the Defense Headquarters and the Ministry of Defence to do everything a government can do to provide comfort and ease the hardships of the families of the deceased, then, prayed to Almighty God to repose their souls and grant their families the fortitude to bear the losses.
Garba Shehu also disclosed that Mrs. Attahiru, on behalf of the rest of the families, thanked the President for the love and care he has shown to them.
 
Share this on WhatsApp