Share this on WhatsApp


The Lagos State Government has said that it would in the month of May roll out extensive policies to tackle impending security challenges in addition to providing far-reaching support to all security operatives to keep the state safe.
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu disclosed this recently while speaking at the 3rd session of the 34th Synod of the Diocese of Lagos, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion) held at Our Saviour’s Anglican Church, Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos.
The governor assured that Lagos will be a state that everybody would be proud of, adding that his administration will deliver on all THEMES six-pillar developmental agenda for ‘Greater Lagos.
Sanwo-Olu in his statement said, “In this month of May, you will see extensive pronouncements in that regard. You will see extensive policies and far-reaching support that would be given out to all our security operatives so that it is not just a talk show and film show; it is something we are committed to and we will continue to make sure that our Lagos remains safe, secure, prosperous and a place where all of you would truly be proud of.”
“This is the melting pot for our nation where anybody can come in with a lot of aspirations and do well. Lagos is a state that gives hope to a lot of Nigerians. Lagos is a state that gives hope to all of Nigeria. So, we cannot afford anything to happen here. I can assure you with every sense of commitment that we will stop at nothing to make sure that Lagos remains safe and secure.
On some of the measures being taken by his administration to curb insecurity in the state, Governor Sanwo-Olu said “We will deal with the issue of motorcycles in systematic order and to have a human face to it, we would provide credible alternatives. We cannot throw the baby and the water away. The alternatives would be properly fashioned out before the end of the month of May.”
Governor Sanwo-Olu also appealed to citizens who have buildings that are either not completed or abandoned to get a professional security company to take them over so that they can monitor and police them well instead of leaving them open for criminals as hideouts.
Share this on WhatsApp