Share this on WhatsApp

As the industry media association, the Nigeria Information Technology Reporters Association (NITRA) prepares for its epoch event, NITRA TECHNOLOGY FORUM 2021, stakeholders in the Cloud Hosting servicer have started to line up in support of the event that holds on May 27, in Lagos, Nigeria.
The event has received backing from the nation’s information technology regulator, the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA); Cloud services operator, Cloudflex and premier data center operator, Rackcenter.
NITRA Technology Forum 2021, which will be chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, Internet Exchange Point of Nigeria (IXPN), Mr. Muhammed Rudman, has its theme as: ‘Achieving 30% Growth In Local Cloud Hosting By 2024’, and will x-ray growth potentials, challenges and benefits of hosting Cloud services and data centers locally.  It will also look at policies and regulation around the sub-sector.
READ ALSO: Diezani: Bawa inherits Magu’s problem
NITRA Chairman, Mr. Chike Onwuegbuchi, while commending the partners for their support of the event and passion for the growth of technology in Nigeria, noted that over the years, the country has been grappling with the need to secure its data and further boost local content in all sectors of the economy, while key stakeholders are concerned about how the sector is faring in this area, and how it can achieve local hosting of our sensitive data. He insists that growth in every facet of the nation’s economy should be inside-out.
“Specifically, the Forum will offer Cloud service companies, data infrastructure companies and other stakeholders, opportunities to reach out to their target market with solutions that address their challenges and needs,” he assured.
NITDA was created in April 2001 to implement the Nigerian Information Technology Policy and co-ordinate general IT development in the country.
National Information Technology Development Act (2007) mandates the Agency to create a framework for the planning, research, development, standardization, application, coordination, monitoring, evaluation and regulation of Information Technology practices, activities and systems in Nigeria.
READ ALSO: How fraudsters hacked company’s account, transfers N78.8 million
Its role therefore is to develop, regulate and advise on Information technology in the country through regulatory standards, guidelines and policies. Additionally, NITDA is the clearing house for all IT projects and infrastructural development in the country.
Rack Centre is a carrier neutral Tier III Constructed Facility Certified data centre that focuses solely on providing best in class data centre colocation services and unrestricted interconnect between carriers and customers. This gives customers a technically superior, physically more secure and lower cost environment for their information systems.
Rack Centre’s carrier neutrality allows customers to manage traffic to get better value, lower latency and higher resilience, and creates an open market for partnerships between customers, networks, cloud and content providers, the Internet Exchange Point of Nigeria and managed service providers.
Rack Centre clients include 40 telecommunication carriers, Internet Service Providers (ISPs), global Tier 1 networks and pan Africa international carriers, including direct connection to all 5 undersea cables serving the South Atlantic Coast of Africa and every country on the Atlantic coast of Africa.
CloudFlex Computing Limited is Nigeria’s leading Enterprise local cloud service Provider. We are the first choice of Cloud Solutions and managed data services for local and Global businesses with great ambitions.
The company offers Information Technology as a service. The services range from Cloud services, Co-location, Managed solutions, Backup services, Disaster Recovery, among others; and support for diverse infrastructure needs by providing Industry-specific Solutions.
The company is based on the principle of developing and delivering top of the line Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) solutions to meet the needs of our existing and prospective clients.
Share this on WhatsApp