Share this on WhatsApp 
President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday departed Abuja for Paris, France, for the African Finance Summit, a period the presidency said is a four-day official visit.
The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement on Saturday, indicated that the Summit is being hosted by the President of France, Emmanuel Macron.
Many stakeholders in the Nigerian polity remarked that while President Buhari has effectively tackled the insecurity crisis in Nigeria, he is abandoning the domestic crisis for international engagements which on their own cannot make meaningful contributions to Nigeria’s myriads of governance crisis except the internal challenges are tackled.
Garba Shehu, however, explained that the Summit “will be focused on reviewing African economy, following shocks from Coronavirus pandemic, and getting relief, especially, from increased debt burden on countries.”
Shehu added that the summit will also attract “major stakeholders in the global finance institutions and some Heads of Government, who will, collectively, discuss external funding and debt treatment for Africa, and private sector reforms.”
Garba Shehu disclosed President Buhari during the four-day official visit is expected to meet with Macron “to discuss growing security threats in Sahel and Lake Chad region, political relations, economic ties, climate change and partnership in buoying the health sector, particularly, in checking spread of Covid-19, with more research and vaccines.”
The presidential SSA declared: “Before returning to Nigeria, President Buhari will receive some key players in the oil and gas sector, engineering and telecommunications, European Council and European Union Representative for Foreign and Security Policy and Commission, and members of the Nigerian community.
“The President will be accompanied by Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed; Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo; and Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire.
“Also on the trip are: National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Mohammed Monguno (rtd); and Director General of National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Amb. Ahmed Rufai Abubakar.”
Share this on WhatsApp