Share this on WhatsAppMany Nigerians at the weekend  took to their twitter handles to berate former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, accusing him of being silent over the Communications and Digital Economy Minister, Pantami, who was involved in a video leakage linking him with Islamic fundamentalism, but found his voice after the meeting and 12 points resolutions of southern governors in Asaba, Delta State, last week.
Several Nigerians took to their twitter handles to chastise the former vice president and former presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2019.
One of the critics of the former VP wrote: “So Atiku can choose not to speak on Pantami but he can speak on Southern Governors meeting to protect the interest of the people that elected them. A big shame.”
The former Vice President Atiku Abubakar had stated @atiku
“Nigeria Is Drifting: We Must Stop Waiting For Godot. The major challenge facing Nigeria today is that we are drifting. We are not just drifting politically and economically. We are also drifting apart from each other.”
One of the critics of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar wrote
@efeCamilus “Asaba declaration is irrevocable. We are tired. This drifting did not start after Southern Governors meeting.”
Another respondent, however, stated
@Abdullahigoslow “Indeed sir, the southern governors made a brave move for an end to insecurity in their region. Atiku is a man of peace; any strategy that will bring peace Atiku will support it. That is why he supported the SG decision.
“Southern Governors met once and some people have become uncomfortable. They aren’t wielding the power they have.”
Another respondent wrote @JeremiahTam “If I were in charge, I’ll be organizing monthly meetings after this. Every last week of the month we gather. Even if we don’t say anything just to piss those other guy’s off. They can hold Northern Governors meetings regularly even meet with foreign govts but they can’t stand…”
Another respondent @OgbeniDipo wrote:
“Northern Governors have been meeting in the last 10 years and pushing their own agenda. Southern Governors meet once after such a long time and political actors are all over the place countering them. “Their demands are progressive. Why are you scared of making progress?”
Another supporters of the southern governors declaration @MalachyOdo1 declared: “Northern Governors meet almost every month and come out with resolutions we sometimes detest but Nigeria usually moves on while they carry on with their agenda. Southern Governors meet for the 1st time in 4yrs & people are peeing in their pants. Funny country.”
Another commentator stated
@RealOlaudah “Aburi ghost, Asaba secessionists and waffles in high places. When you listen to Nigeria’s Senate President, Ahmed Lawan’s skewed submission on southern governors’ meeting in Asaba, last week, you’ll realise that people in high places too are not immune from marketplace waffles.”
A submission from a supporter of the southern governors wrote @Nun_River “It is clear that the recent meeting by southern governors in Nigeria sent a message across the River Niger.”
Share this on WhatsApp