Share this on WhatsApp




An Ibadan chief and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Oloye Adegboyega Adegoke, has said there is need to convene a national dialogue, following agitations by groups and individuals for secession or restructuring of the country.
In a statement yesterday by his media aide, Raji Adebayo, Adegoke, the Ajia Balogun of Ibadanland, said the country should hold a national dialogue to resolve agitations.
He said everybody should come to a roundtable to resolve differences and address agitations.
The APC chieftain said the outcome of the national dialogue would determine the next line of action for the country to move forward.
He advised those agitating for secession to have a rethink “because there are more benefits if Nigeria remains as one.”
According to him, “there is a need for a national dialogue where everybody will come together and speak their mind.
“If we have the national dialogue, we can look at whether our staying together is to our own benefit or not. To me, you don’t just say restructuring, we need to have a national dialogue first.
“I know that we had one during the time of former President Goodluck Jonathan. But where is the report? The book is gathering dust.
“I believe there are a lot of benefits if we remain together as a country.”
Adegoke said Nigeria is experiencing problems “because we are not operating a true federal system of government.
“The problem in Nigeria is that we are not actually implementing the federal system of government very well. We are not following it.
“We are operating a unitary system. You say that we are running a federal system of government, but states are not in control of their resources.
“States will be going to Abuja every month to collect allocation. That is the problem, because states will become lazy as they know that they will collect money in Abuja at the end of the month.
“But in a true federalism, the state will control its domain, likewise local governments and they will be answerable to the Federal Government. By this, governance and dividends of democracy will get closer to the doorsteps of every Nigerian at the grassroots.”
He congratulated Muslims on the just concluded 30 days Ramadan fasting and said they should imbibe the tenets of Prophet Muhammad, among which is unity.





Share this on WhatsApp