Share this on WhatsApp 
There is an emerging fear of clandestine transmission of coronavirus across the world, using people vaccines carriers who had received coronavirus vaccines to infest people who refused to be vaccinated. Apparently, vaccines are now to be used through human carriers to spread the virus to healthy people, and ensure that everyone takes the vaccines ‘unwillingly’.
Pfizer documents were gathered to have revealed that vaccinated people “shed” infectious particles, using spike protein known as bioweapon.
A special vaccine known as bioweapon was said to be developed to precipitate spike protein, referred to as bioactive weapon, detected to be designed to spread the virus from person to person, and being “transmitted from the vaccinated to infect the unvaccinated”.
It was recalled that Bill Gates had an intention to adopt mosquitoes as carriers to transmit vaccines from one person to the other to ensure people are vaccinated in defiance to their wishes and without their consent. The new bioweapon discovery now made the use of mosquitoes unnecessary.
It was revealed that there are high-obedience humans who are willing to perform same functions. The new invention make it possible for people injected with the mRNA vaccine to convert their bodies into bioweapons factories, spread spike protein substances, emitted through their mouths and skin (and semen…) infecting everyone around them. Pfizer’s document had revealed that the spike protein is biologically active and causes blood clots, culminating into strokes, heart attacks, pulmonary embolism, and infertility effects. The documents exposed the emergent bioweapon to vaccine developers for possible caution.
The fear was expressed: “What is now becoming obvious is that today’s vaccines were deliberately designed to function as self-replicating vaccines, to spread the spike protein bioweapons to those who refuse to be vaccinated.”
The Atomic Scientists Bulletin was cited to have written in 2020 that “scientists are working on vaccines that spread like a disease…”
This was identified to explain the blood clotting occurring in people yet to be vaccinated but are in close proximity to vaccinated people.
Curiously, the US had earlier this week declared that people who have received full doses of vaccines can now mix freely in large gatherings without mask even with people who have not received the coronavirus vaccines.
The vaccines risks are increasing by the day with surreptitious infringement on people’s rights and freedoms.
Share this on WhatsApp