Share this on WhatsApp
 
The May 29 local government election primaries in Lagos state has put asunder in the once united Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) of the Lagos All Progressives Congress as members of the body are now locked in a battle for supremacy, to pave way for their choice candidates to emerge as the party’s flag bearer.
The local government elections in the state is slated for July 24.
National Daily gathered a member of GAC, the apex body within the APC in Lagos, Cardinal James Odunmbaku, popularly known as Baba Eto is currently at loggerheads with James Faleke, a House of Representatives member representing Ikeja Federal Constituency over who emerged as the chairmanship candidate for Ojodu Local Council Development Area (LCDA).
READ ALSO:Tinubu, presidency face-off on open grazing kicks up
While Faleke is pulling enough weight for his own aspirant, Alhaja Funmi Layeni, Odunmbaku is bent on ensuring that his son, David Odunmbaku (who is currently the Council Secretary) emerges as the next chairman of the council.
Faleke’s grouse, according to a top member of Layeni’s campaign team was that “they cannot serve the father and also serve the son”, referring to Baba Eto’s strong influence in the political structure of Ojodu LCDA.
Odunmbaku on his part has insisted that his son is eminently qualified to contest.
Speaking at his son’s declaration for the chairmanship position a few months ago, Odunmbaku said, “I chose my son at the very last. You know I have been sponsoring other people with all my strength, politically and financially with the permission and blessing of Asiwaju Tinubu, putting people in respective positions in politics, ministries, local government administration, but I decided to sponsor my child in the final analysis, and not without the blessing of Asiwaju.”
READ ALSO:ATTAHIRU: Buhari appoints new COAS
A close associate of Odunmbaku’s son who preferred not to be named told our reporter that it was unfortunate that Faleke who Baba Eto supported to rise to limelight politically is now the one spearheading opposition against Baba Eto’s son.
In Lagos-Island Local Government, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, the party leader of Lagos Central Senatorial District who is also a member of the GAC has also come under fire over his alleged involvement to ensure that his son, Adetoyese Olusi, who is the incumbent chairman returns for another term despite accusations from several quarters over his lackluster performance in his first term.
But Olusi’s plan has met a stumbling block as party members have vowed to oppose the move.
In Surulere Local Government, there is a cold war brewing among party members as two viable aspirants, the incumbent Vice Chairman of the council, Suleiman Yusuf and Idris Aregbe are currently in neck to neck to grab the chairmanship ticket.
While Idris Aregbe, who is currently the Youth Organising Secretary of the APC in Lagos enjoys the support of the party’s national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Yusuf on the other hand has the backing of key grassroots’ leaders and members of the party in the local government, including the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, who hails from the council.
Despite the internal challenges plaguing the APC, a top party source told our correspondent that the party is confident of sweeping the council polls as the main opposition party in the state, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), according to him, is still grappling in the dark.
The situation is same in all the local councils and development areas.
Meanwhile, national leader of the party and a former governor of the state, Bola Tinubu, has dismissed reports that he endorsed his preferred candidates for the upcoming council polls.
READ ALSO:Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu, others back calls for ban on open grazing
The APC Chieftain then urged all aspirants to compete with zeal, energy and to respect the results of the primaries.
To this end, it was gathered that Tinubu has called for a larger stakeholders meeting at the party secretariat in Acme, Ikeja to resolve all the differences before the primaries.
But a top party source said Tinubu’s statement denying that he had his choice candidates was only a smokescreen, insisting that the party stalwart, like previous council polls in the state, will have the final say on the chairmanship slots across the 57 councils.

Share this on WhatsApp