Share this on WhatsApp 
The United States of America on Thursday disclosed a major breakthrough in containing coronavirus spread in the country. The US had announced that it is now safe for vaccinated people to be in any kind of group gathering without masks even with people who did not receive the coronavirus vaccines.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) had on Thursday declared that “fully vaccinated Americans can now gather with other individuals without masks indoors and outdoors, even if some in their group are unvaccinated.”
It is widely celebrated that the Biden administration has become the first to declare that it is safe for vaccinated people to remove masks in any kind of group gathering — big or small, indoors, or outdoors, no matter who is present.
The Director of the CDC, Rochelle Walensky, formally stated on Thursday: “Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities, large or small, without wearing a mask or physically distancing.
“If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing the things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic. We have all longed for this moment when we can get back to some sense of normalcy.”
The US President, Joe Biden, had in a speech at the White House Rose Garden on Thursday afternoon, celebrated the announcement as a “milestone”, attributing the success to American people for adhering to public health measures over one year.
“If you have been fully vaccinated, you no longer need to wear a mask.
“But if you have not been vaccinated … you still need to wear a mask. We have gotten this far. Please protect yourself until you get to the finish line. We don’t want to let up,” Biden had said.
It was highlighted that the rate of Covid-19 infection has been decreasing nationally and hospitalizations have been at their lowest level since April 2020. The U.S., therefore, resolved to begin moving toward a sense of normalcy, according to Biden.
Meanwhile, authorities in Nigeria are moving towards another lockdown under the guise of preventing another wave of coronavirus spread in the country even when claims of new cases or death have been on constant decline, with corresponding high rate of recovery.
Share this on WhatsApp