Share this on WhatsAppIn its resolve to evolve  functional institutions across the state,the Lagos State House of Assembly on Tuesday perfected moves to establish the Lagos state legislative Studies and research institute.


The idea was muted after the Lagos State Legislative Studies and research institute bill was read for the second time on the floor of the house.


 The Private member bill herald lots of of accolades for the Speaker, Rt Hon. Mudashiru Obasa who was eulogized by members for having breast taped lots of people oriented bills in time past and still forging ahead with improved vigour.


Commenting on the  bill,members took turns to mirror its import stating unequivocally that it will formalise the sharing of knowledge across the  national and international scope.


Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu (Eti-Osa 2 ) who said the bill is long overdue,itemized the various benefits that accrues to include; the induction training of new Legislative members and refresher course for existing members; training of Legislative staff of the House and fiscal training in the areas of lawmaking.

 He also stated that improved laws will be churned out from the house owing to derivable benefits in terms of research from the would be Institute,  as scientific data will be well afforded for better appraisal of existing laws or repeal of obsolete ones.

“Education is a lifelong learning, medium of transfer of knowledge from one generation to another and to have an Institution to formalise the sharing of knowledge across the entire scope is a welcome and noble idea, we must do everything amongst ourselves to improve the capacity of lawmakers.” He said.

Majority Leader, Hon. S.O.B Agunbiade who critically dissected the bill notes that it had lots of merits as it will promote better performance in the State; citing the possibility of academic tourism the bill will attract from other State Houses of Assemblies when passed.

Hon. Desmond Elliott (Surulere 1) was quick to score the Speaker another first, for being proactive in churning out bills that become laws with human face,which are beneficial and germane to the State in particular and the Country at large.

He cited the Lagos Neighborhood Safety Corps law, Cancer Institute law and the proposed Lagos State Legislative Studies and Research Institute Bill which he claimed will further boost the reputation State.

He however, recommended that the Bill should coopt existing  institutes to ease required competence for it to come up with a Diploma and Masters awarding programs,also teaching of the principles of law.

Hon. Adedamola Kasunmu adopting the position of other Honourable Members, added that the establishment of the Institute will serve as a recognition from international legislative bodies and the participation of legislative institutes to keep up with Lagos State House of Assembly and the State as a whole.

Hon. Lukman Olumoh appraised the Lagos State Legislative Studies and Research Institute Bill as a residual for knowledge with a creation of a standard library that will save the government operational cost.

Hon. Victor Akande (Ojo1) in his own contribution, notes that, “Mr. Speaker you have always facilitated vigorous bills that has transcended into laws and I am sure you will do better at the Upper Chamber in the Senate.

” I suggest that we should call the Bill, the Lagos State Institute of Advance Legislative Studies to have a connotation with the Ph.D certification.”

Hon. Femi Saheed (Kosofe 2) described the bills passed by the House as a total reflection of the situation in the State and the Institute bill will be a fulcrum of internal democracy with the tenets, teachings and practices of how Legislative and lawmaking should be.

“With the population of 25 million people, if we want democracy to be enhanced in Nigeria, we need an Institution that will uphold it and this Bill will add quality to the lawmakers and enhance democractic tenets, saving cost for the State in terms of education tourism and increase the know-how of the lawmakers elected into office.” He said.

Saheed enjoined colleagues to support the Bill and give it an accelerated passage so that Lagos State can benefit from it.


Hon. Mojeed Fatai (Ibeju Lekki 1) called for the Ibile structure to considered in the establishment of the Institute as opposed to zonal setting, he also suggested that existing well grounded  lecturers from institutions of higher learning be coopted so as to leverage on their capacity.

Obasa submits that the bill is an incubator hatched for an efficient and effective legislative Institute in the State, adding that the deliberate disregard sidelining of the legislature at the grassroots by council chairmen owing to councillors clear cut lack of competence, will be well checkmated with the establishment of the proposed institute.

“This Bill is viable to us and also for other legislatures in the service of the Parliament, other States can also share in it as the Centre will be a learning space for councilors and Local Government Chairmen, promoting and deepening democracy in our State.

 “The Institute will also engage international Legislative bodies like African Parliamentary Union where we can acquire more knowledge through the Centre.” He maintained.

The Speaker later mandated  joint Committees on Education, Tertiary Institution and Judiciary, petition and LASIEC to work on the bill and report to the House in 3 weeks.
Share this on WhatsApp