Share this on WhatsApp


A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Lagos, Chief Fouad Oki, has condemned in critical terms the appointment of Deputy Governor of Lagos state, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat as the APC Local Government Screening and Council Election Committee Chairman and Primary Elections Committee, accusing him of having vested interest, and can therefore not be fair.
Oki said many APC members considered Hamzat and other members of the committee “as a glorified surrogate and a hand of Esau and voice of Jacob in their selection.
“I demand on behalf of so many party patriots that the Deputy Governor recuse himself from the committee forthwith. The moral implication of his continued membership of the committee will come as a testimony that, truly, Governor Babajide Sanwoolu will be denied the conventional right of first refusal next year.
Read also: https://nationaldailyng.com/why-husband-battery-is-rising-in-lagos/
The insinuation out there is that Dr. Femi Hamzat was appointed to superintend the nomination of those who will guard and ensure his nomination as the party’s flag bearer next year, a classic case of people wanting to come to equity with very stained and blooded hands.
Oki also called on the APC national leadership, the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission, political parties, security agencies, non -governmental organizations as well as the media to rise up and make sure that the forthcoming council election was free and fair.
Hamzat has been alleged of plotting to do everything possible and as well use his power to install his younger brother, the present vice chairman of the council, Hon. Usman Hamzat as the APC candidate for the forthcoming election.
The committee, inaugurated by the party’s Chairman, Chief Tunde Balogun following the release of the statutory election notices published by the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC.)
Read also: https://nationaldailyng.com/wike-laments-collapse-of-nigerias-security-architecture-declares-support-for-self-defence/
Balogun reiterated that the announcement of the elections scheduled for July 24 has ignited political activities in the party, with various aspirants canvassing for support.
Hamzat had assured the party of living up to expectations and ensured that credible guidelines would be put in place to justify the confidence the party leadership reposed in him.
He said the party would present the best candidates that would complement the efforts of the state government in providing the dividends of democracy.
Other members of the committee are former deputy governor, Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule; Mr. Ademola Sadiq- the state legal adviser; Hon. Adewale Oshun; Hon. Daramola Abayomi; Alh. Ganiyu Sadiq; Mr. Ademola Olisa; Mr. Fatai Lasisi; Mr. Adebiyi Kehinde; Mr. Olabode Olaniyan; Mr. S. A. Sekoni; Mr. Tunde Lawal and Mr. Gani Bello.
Share this on WhatsApp