Share this on WhatsApp





Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa has begun a state-wide tour, aimed at getting feedback from people of the state, as part of activities commemorating his second year in office.
Speaking during the commencement of the town hall meeting on Wednesday in Toto Local Government Area, the governor said that the exercise was to inform the citizens and get feedback from them on the government’s programmes and policies.
Responding to questions and concerns raised by stakeholders in the area, the governor said that securing lives and property was his administration’s number one priority.
He said that when he assumed office, Darussalam bandits were terrorising people, adding, however, that they were soon dislodged and their families arrested and handed over to the governors of their respective states of origin.
Sule also assured the people of the area that all their requests would be considered, with a view of addressing them.
He added that the government had received reports of an attack by bandits on Tuesday night, where one person was killed, assuring that necessary measures had been taken to tackle the remaining criminal elements, to ensure that peace returned to the area.
The governor also said that the government would do everything possible to unite all the ethnic groups for the overall development of the state.
He lauded the people for their openness in airing their complaints and challenges, assuring that they would all be looked into.
Chairman Toto Local Government Council, Mr Nuhu Dauda, commended the governor for his proactive measures towards addressing insecurity bedevilling the area.
He explained that the Federal Government had approved the establishment of military camps and police formations to dislodge bandits and other criminal elements in the area.
The LG boss further said that in spite of the security challenges facing the state, the governor had provided flood early warning equipment, constructed schools and healthcare centres, among others.
He, however, appealed to the state government for the establishment of a tertiary institution in Toto and provision of water as well as construction of roads to the military camps in the area to enhance smooth operations.
Also speaking during the town hall meeting, Mario Usman and Usman Toto, both stakeholders in the area, commended the governor for his efforts so far, but appealed that more should be done to consolidate the achievements.
The duo also expressed worries over the security situation of the area, appealing to the government to rise to the occasion.
They also called on the governor to give them first class traditional rulers and establish a tertiary institution in the area.






Share this on WhatsApp