Share this on WhatsApp




School children during the discussion programme to mark the 2021 children’s day celebration in Bauchi



A Non-governmental Organisation, High Level Women Advocates (HiLWA), on Thursday, counseled the girl-child to always speak out on any abuse meted out to them, without fear of  intimidation.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that HiLWA works in collaboration with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), to assist the girl-child to possess relevant educational qualifications in the country.
Speaking  at a programme organised to mark the 2021 children’s day celebration in Bauchi, Mrs Hauwa Jubril, a representative of the NGO, said any girl-child who had suffered abuse should not be shy to speak out, so as to get justice.
Jubril noted that keeping quiet in the face of abuse would only make such acts more pervasive in  the society.
“We have been telling the girl-child that if they are abused, they should not be shy, they should come out boldly to tell us.
“Let them speak out, by hiding it or covering themselves in the room is not going to solve the problem. It’s  only going to end up killing the child.
“If they speak out, we will be able to fight for their rights but you cannot be there covering yourself in a room and expect somebody to solve your problem.
“If they come out to say it, we will fight to the last , even if it is going to be our last drop of blood, we are going to fight for them,” she said.
Jubril also called on mothers across the country to stop concealing any form of abuse, especially, rape, noting that oftentimes some parents believed a rape victim should be concealed, otherwise she may not get a suitor in the nearest future.

Also speaking, Mr Raphael  Aiyedipe, Education Specialist, at the UNICEF Bauchi Field Office, said that the programme would allow the adolescent children to identify how COVID-19 had affected their participation in quality learning in both the rural and urban areas.
Aiyedipe said it would also bring to the forefront of discourse learning challenges during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially how it affected adolescent girls.
He  further added that the programme would allow for documentation and presentation of demands from the children, seeking governments’ support in reversing the impact of the pandemic on their education.

NAN also reports that the programme, organised by the Bauchi State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) in collaboration with UNICEF, Bauchi Field Office, and HiLWA, was themed ‘Unite to Reverse the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on children’.







Share this on WhatsApp