Share this on WhatsApp





The jostling for the 2023 presidential election took a new dimension yesterday, as a youth group demanded for the return of former President Goodluck Jonathan to office on May 29, 2023.
It came on the heel of an alleged move by some governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to lure the former leader into the 2023 presidential race.
The youth group, on the platform of “Youth Earnest Demand for Goodluck Jonathan 2023”, in a statement in Abuja yesterday, said they were prepared to fund his electioneering campaign.
The statement jointly signed by its National Chairman, Prince Teddy Omiloli, and the National Director Operations, Comrade Douye Daniel, maintained that the former president is the solution to the country’s problem and has all it takes to turn around for good the nation’s fortunes.
The group said: “We are demanding for Dr. Jonathan to return to power as President, come 2023 and we have resolved to fund Jonathan’s electioneering campaign, should he accept the call to return to power in 2023.

“At this point in time, after a vivid look into the ideologies and activities of our present political players, which include the youths and elders, we saw in Goodluck Jonathan, a true democrat, a nation builder, a divinely inspired goal-oriented leader of integrity that has the solution to the present Nigeria problem. He (Jonathan) has proven that he can sacrifice anything to ensure the unity, peace and development of our great nation Nigeria.
“We, as youths of this great nation after discovering the Nigeria problem and found the solution in Goodluck Jonathan, we are calling on all Nigerians, including our political elites, present administration and religious leaders to join the call for the return of Goodluck Ebele Jonathan and also join our #BringbackGEJ project.”
To drive home their support, the group pledged to foot the electioneering bills of the former leader.
“We the youths are ready to purchase President Jonathan’s form in any party he chooses to flag from and we will fund his electioneering campaign from beginning to end the moment he accepts this divine call. We decided to take this up as a result of our readiness to contribute in restructuring Nigeria for a better future.”







Share this on WhatsApp