Arteta has been eager to fortify Arsenal’s defence
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppThese are difficult times at the Emirates as the Gunners face missing out on a qualification for a continental football next season for the first time since 1995-96.
National Daily can confirm that the last season Arsenal were not involved in European football was 26 years ago after they finished 12th in the Premier League the previous season.
Thankfully, the Emirates club have since enjoyed a 25-year run in continental competition, but sadly, that European football enjoyment is now under serious danger as they suffer another poor season.
Though mathematically, Arsenal can still qualify for either the Europa League or the newly created Europa Conference League, they however still face a herculean task doing so.
Meanwhile, Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta speaking to BBC Sport after his side’s EPL victory against West Brom on Sunday has since taken the responsibility for Arsenal woes this season while acknowledging that the affliction still weighs mightily upon him.
“I do take [responsibility], it is still there, still hurting,”
“You can probably see in my body language it is still there. There were very small margins. I still feel very responsible,” he added.
“We have done so many right steps, some you can see and some you can’t. The foundations are there.
“[Today], the best way to do it is with the right attitude. The three goals were very different but really good individual and collective actions.”
Meanwhile, reports reaching National Daily suggest that Mikel Arteta is finally ready to salvage Arsenal woes with his planned summer team overhaul.
It is believed that the Spaniard is ready to make Arsenal No 1, Bernd Leno who arrived at the Emirates in 2018 from one of the rejigging casualties as he could be offered up for sale.
The Gunners No 1 moved to the club in 2018 from Bayer Leverkusen and has been first choice throughout his time in north London.
Though the Gunners boss appeared to have underlined his faith in Leno after Emiliano Martinez, who wanted to usurp the German in the pecking order was sold to Aston Villa, but it is understood that Arteta is now ready to  listen to offers for the 29-year-old, who cost the club £22.5m three years ago.
National Daily reckons that despite adding several new faces in the summer Arteta has overseen a difficult year that could result in no European football.
It has reinforced the need to act in the transfer market with Leno set to be one of many casualties as the Gunners aim to raise as much as £60m in player sales.
National Daily further gathered from the report by football.london that Arteta and the club will also listen to offers for Lucas Torreira and Matteo Guendouzi
Both players are currently out on loan at Atletico Madrid and Hertha Berlin respectively.
While Torreira fell down the pecking order last season, Guendouzi’s incident in a defeat at Brighton saw him marginalised by Arteta.
In furtherance to Arteta’s proposed team overhaul, Hector Bellerin, who has been linked with a return to Camp Nou, will also be available for sale.
Ainsley Maitland-Niles whose loaned team, West Brom was recently relegated by Arsenal is another player touted to be on the casualty list.
And interestingly for the Gunners fans, reports from France suggest that Arteta and Arsenal have made Rennes talented young star Eduardo Camavinga their main transfer target in their effort to bolster their ranks.
The 18-year-old Camavinga who has continued to go from strength to strength with some of Europe’s giants tracking his development will really be a great addition to the Emirates.
Share this on WhatsApp