Share this on WhatsApp





Nigerians in the Diaspora Organisation (NIDO) Qatar, have expressed displeasure over the sudden suspension of issuance of new International Passports and renewal of old ones by the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS).
The President of NIDO-Qatar in the United Arab Emirate, Mr Victor Ikoli, made this known in a telephone interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday.
He said that decision for the suspension did not consider the interest of intending applicants from the diaspora, who had travelled to their fatherland.
“We understand that the directive is intended to allow the agency clear backlogs of applications, following the start of the new passport regime on June 1.
“However, there was no notification to this effect, despite the fact that many Nigerians from various parts of the world are returning home almost on a daily basis.
“They returned home to resolve passport issues caused by lack of booklets or machines in their resident countries.
“We have over 1000 applications in Qatar alone with approximately 20 percent of them being newborns.
“Just three days ago, approximately 10 people travelled with the hope of completing the process and returning to work on time.
“Based on this development, they are bound to wait longer than expected at the expense of their job in these difficult times,’’ Ikoli said.
He disclosed that information had reached compatriots in that country through the Minister of Interior, Mr Rauf Aregbesola, at a webinar organised by Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM).
He expressed the hope that the new policy would help the agency put an end to the pains and sufferings of Nigerians at home and in the diaspora.
Mr A.B. Yarima, Deputy Controller-General of NIS, had earlier announced the suspension of processing of new international passports, to enable clear backlogs of applicants with effect from May 17.
Yarima later explained that all new passports and renewals would be suspended till June 1.
He said the directive was a sequel to the commencement of the new passport regime.






Share this on WhatsApp