Share this on WhatsAppThe Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, on Friday commended the judgement of the Supreme Court which sealed the hope of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to upturn the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State in the September 2020 governorship election. Deputy Governor Shaibu in Benin City declared that the rule of law is the strong pillar and rock on which Nigeria’s democracy stands.
Deputy Governor Shaibu declared: “The ruling of the Supreme Court today has shown that the Judiciary does not lack teeth. “The rule of law is the strong pillar and rock on which Nigeria’s democracy stands. Every other foundation is made of sinking sand because the judiciary is no longer bound by artificial limitations.”
The deputy governor, expressing joy as the Supreme Court reaffirmed the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki in a landmark judgement, stated that the Supreme Court displayed decisional  and institutional independence which underscores the ability of the judiciary to make decisions free from Political influence.
He affirmed that “the Judiciary constitutes the most important vessel in the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria. The deputy governor ridiculed  Nigerian politicians that the Supreme Court is not a systematic instrument for the acquisition of political power.
“The final judgement today has demonstrated to the World that the Nigerian Judiciary is not a pawn in the hands of desperate politicians to realize their ambition. The rule of law has prevailed and this has demonstrated further that no one can sit above the law.
“Justice is the greatest interest of man and the ligament which binds civilized people together. “Today’s judgement has reinforced this saying due to the celebration all over Edo State and other parts of the World.
“The extent to which the Nigeria Judiciary is free to perform it’s roles and efficiently too, will determine how developed and how deep rooted our Democracy will be,” Deputy Governor Shaibu declared.
The Deputy Governor noted that Nigeria is operating the rule of law and not rule by law where unjust and oppressive laws are enacted with hyper politicized Courts to oppressed others.
Share this on WhatsApp