Share this on WhatsApp 
A gang of gunmen on Wednesday struck in Akwa Ibom State, killing one police officer, Edogi Bassey, as they invaded two police stations which were burnt down.
The gunmen had invaded the Etim Ekpo Area Command and Division at about 6.30am where the police officer was killed, while some parts of the station was razed.
The Police Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, Odiko MacDon, confirming the attack, narrated that gunmen, in their numbers, armed with AK 47 rifles and other dangerous weapons, arrives in two vehicles, attacked the rented building accommodating the Etim Ekpo Area Command and Division at about 6:30 a.m. on Wednesday.
“The undaunted and vigilant Police Officers on duty gallantly fought back, repelled them, and averted the intended carnage.
“Unfortunately, a dedicated Officer, one PC Edogi Bassey, paid the supreme price while a small portion of the building was touched,” MacDon had said.
The PPRO further revealed that the gunmen also attacked Ika Division but were successfully repelled by the officers, “without loss of lives or arms.”
MacDon decried the “unacceptable worrisome trend” of incessant attacks on police facilities and officers. He, however, stated that the Police authorities are working to nip the ugly trend in the bud. The PPRO added that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Amiengheme Andrew, is determined to guarantee security in Akwa Ibom State.
The PPRO stated: “The Commissioner of Police, CP Amiengheme Andrew, who is going round formations and Divisions to ensure alertness and safety of officers, men, and the people has called on law-abiding citizens to volunteer timely information that will enable the Police to tackle the present security challenges.”
Gunmen had killed five police officers last week, in addition to wife of an officer who was also killed by gunmen during an attack on Divisional Police Headquarters, Odoro Ikpe, in Ini Local Government Area, Akwa-Ibom State.
Two police officers were also killed by armed men while a vehicle was burnt in an attack on Ika Divisional Headquarters in April.
Attack and killing of police officers by gunmen have become rampant in the southeast and south-south in the recent time.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp