Share this on WhatsApp




Ohanaeze Ndigbo has urged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to ignore rumours of planned attacks on Lagos State by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
It said Ndigbo cannot indulge in acts that will harm the peace and cordial relationship between Igbo and Yoruba, especially in Lagos, which is the “second home of several Ndigbo”.
President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide Prof. George Obiozor described the rumour as a ploy to pit Ndigbo against the Yoruba


“The dangerous rumour is aimed at causing division, crisis and conflict among us,” he said.
A statement yesterday by Sanwo-Olu’s Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, said Obiozor led members of the association to visit Sanwo-Olu at the Lagos House in Marina.
Obiozor also praised the governor for the exemplary leadership he exhibited at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying the governor deserved commendation.
He said: “The leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, in the company of Igbo Elders and Leaders in Lagos, are here to reassure you that Ndigbo are not violent, nor are we known for acts of violence anywhere we live.
“The dangerous insinuations, rumour, gossip and callous statements that Ndigbo in Lagos, or any part of Yoruba land, is contemplating violence in Lagos or any part of Yoruba land, is false.
“We state clearly that anywhere this dangerous rumour or statement is emanating from is aimed to cause division, crises and conflict among us.
“We believe this rumour is intended to distract the governor from providing good governance for all and cause disaffection between Ndigbo who live in Lagos and their host community which is the second home of several Ndigbo.
“The quick denial of this rumour by members of IPOB and Yoruba groups in Lagos and across the Southwest was a source of relief.”
Sanwo-Olu assured the Ohanaeze leadership of continued good governance, security of lives and properties of all residents in Lagos.
The governor expressed assurance that Ndigbo are great people, and promised that his administration would continue to foster harmonious relationships with every tribe and ethnicity in the state.






Share this on WhatsApp