Share this on WhatsApp

Founder of Living Faith Worldwide, Bishop David Oyedepo was among top dignitaries that attended the farewell service for late Pastor Dare Adeboye, son of the General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God as he was laid to rest today.
While praying for the immediate family of the deceased, Bishop Oyedepo said there shall be no going back for the church and the family.
READ ALSO: https://nationaldailyng.com/igboho-backtracks-on-adeboye-says-people-trying-to-create-confusion/
He noted that it shall be forward ever for them after the death of Pastor Dare. His words: “Every challenge of life requires a constant. Every problem in life requires a constant for solution.
“Let God be true is our constant, ever reliable, ever sure, He knows what He is doing. He said what I do now thou knowest not but thou shall know hereafter.
“No going back. It shall be forward ever. For the entire family, it shall be forward ever, for the Redeemed Christian Church of God, it shall be forward ever, for the body of Christ it shall be forward ever.”
Before Oyedepo prayed for the family, Pastor Leke Adeboye, brother to the deceased, read the bible at the farewell ceremony.
READ ALSO: https://nationaldailyng.com/rccg-general-overseer-adeboye-loses-42-year-old-son/
Leke said there is no reason for grief and called on all to only remember the deceased and the family of the deceased in their prayers.
The deceased before his death was the Youth Provincial Pastor in Eket, Akwa Ibom State. He died suddenly on Tuesday, June 4 in his sleep.
Dignitaries present at the farewell ceremony of the late Pastor Dare were Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Noimot Salako-Oyedele; former Ondo State governor, Olusegun Mimiko, among others.
Meanwhile, father of the deceased, Pastor Enoch Adeboye has urged Nigerians not to cry over the demise of his son, Dare.
He rather called for prayers for his wife, Pastor Folu Adeboye, the widow, his children, grandchildren and the entire family.
Adeboye, in a 10-minute, 55-second video, shared by his son, Leke Adeboye on YouTube thanked Nigerians for the massive show of love.
He said: “Cry if you wish but don’t cry for Pastor Dee (as Dare is fondly called) because he is resting in glory. Cry because you are the one still fighting the battle.
“We have lost a champion. You would agree with me on that. Let us consider him a seed that we have sown and let’s get ready for a special harvest.
Share this on WhatsApp