Share this on WhatsAppBy Prof. Femi Ajayi
Democracy is a pleasant and attractive process if we perform by the rules. It accounts for Transparency, Accountability, and Good Governance. It is a weapon for the electorates against any inept elected public official who is failing in his or her constitutional responsibility.
The ‘Vote of No Confidence’ on President Muhammadu Buhari, is a reaction from Nigerians, over his abysmal performance in office, with his old-fashioned rhetoric without any optimistic action. The swerving social media campaign on ‘Vote of No Confidence’ on President Muhammadu Buhari, came a day, in April 2021, after parents of some abducted students at the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka, Kaduna State, protested at the National Assembly, Abuja.
In 2014, Tinubu, the architect of Buhari emergence as Nigeria President, stated: “Nigerians, the only way to have steady light and fuel is to remove Goodluck Jonathan. And I promise you in six months Nigeria will be swimming in crude oil and fuel. Buhari will pay you all N5,000.00 monthly for been jobless, our youth will be gainfully employed with our three million (3,000.000) jobs a year.”
President Goodluck Jonathan lost the 2015 election for not meeting up to Nigerians’ expectations on Boko Haram mainly; also, on Fuel Subsidy; and Power Supply. Buhari administration promised to correct these within six months into his administration. Unfortunately, the man-made challenges deteriorated under his administration.
‘Vote of No Confidence’ is a formal vote by which the members of a legislature or similar deliberative body indicate lack of support of a leader. In this case Nigerians are calling the shot, as they have been disappointed over Buhari’s fruitless administration, especially the unchecked issues on security, kidnappings, and religious killings.
Ironically, as the 2021 9th National Assembly, NASS, Abuja, is familiar with Buhari’s inefficient and naïve administration, nothing is being done by the body. Sarcastically, ‘Vote of No Confidence’ on his abysmal performance in office is not on NASS agenda. More so, the irresistible Boko Haram insurgence, uncontrolled Fulani Herders invasion, an intensified kidnapping for ransom, and unrestrained religious killings remain unchecked.
In as much as NASS budget is not touched, members of NASS are contented with the hopeless Buhari administration. Most Nigerians believe that NASS Head as a Fulani, while the Deputy House Speaker is Fulani, therefore, no one would bring any motion on ‘Vote of No Confidence’ or Impeachment on Buhari.
Most Nigerians, Religious and Political Leaders are concerned about BUHARI leadership, as his administration is silence over the devastating issues of Boko Haram, Unemployment, Herdsmen, Armed Robbery, Recession, Insecurity, among others.
Ironically, the escalating insecurity in Nigeria was recorded inside the precinct of Presidential Villa, Abuja, on May 9, 2021, at 3:00am. It was reported that, Armed Robbers invaded the houses of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, and his (Buhari’s) Administrative Officer, Abubakar Maikano, and made away with some valuables from their houses.
Again, most Nigerians would have vote of no confidence on Buhari in the handling of Nigeria lingering Boko Haram insurgence; persistent Fulani Herders invasion and killings; Middle Belt religious killings and kidnappings for ransom. Unfortunately, they are now spreading to the Southern part of Nigeria, especially Southwest.
Absolutely, the Nigerian government has failed Nigerians as thousands have started passing ‘Vote of No Confidence’ on President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. Nevertheless, the Nigeria government has failed its constitutional responsibility of protecting life and property of Nigerians.
Regrettably, most Nigerians were mentally blindfolded for Buhari Presidency with his cloudy background of Islamizing Nigeria through the atrocities of Boko Haram and the Fulani Herdsmen.
Disappointingly, Buhari lives in the Ancient World and refuses to grow. He Thinks, Acts, Walks, Sleeps in the Primordial World of Rhetoric which the past Nigerian leaders used in enslaving an average Nigerian mindset. It never brought improvement to the country. Unfortunately, Nigeria remains stagnant while failing to join 2021 New World Order.
Nigerians are disappointed while Buhari ethnic people are at the helms of affairs in the Country, especially the Security and Financial Institutions. They refused to make any positive impact on the country. Unfortunately, it has been evidenced that other agencies are headed by Fulani, again, hence no positive changes in Nigeria.
For instance, Fulani is Nigerian President; Senate President; Chief Justice of the Federation; Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly; Chief of Army Staff; Chief of Naval Staff; Inspector General of Police; Directors of State Security Service, DSS; National Security Adviser; Minister of Defense; Commander, National Intelligence Agency; Military Intelligence; Naval Intelligence; Air Force Intelligence; Immigration; and Nigerian Authority.
In addition, the Chairman, The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA; Comptroller Tin-Can Ports Lagos; Commandant, Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos; General Manager, Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC; and Minister, Petroleum Resources are believed to be Fulani ethnic group. Ironically, Nigeria is still facing insecurity and downtrodden economy. An average Nigerian wants Democracy to thrive in the country. Democracy allows ‘Vote of No Confidence’ on their President who is unable to handle the affairs of the Country. Nigerians should stop manipulating Democracy for an incompetent President who uses Religion and Ethnicity in managing Nigeria affairs.
Buhari is insensitive to human life and property, while the youths could not be positively and mentally engaged under his administration.
Under democracy, elections change elected public officials including the President. Nigerians realize that. Anything contrary to the democratic norms would be illegal, treasonable and could attract the necessary consequences. As destiny might have it, Buhari is on his second term in office; whereas the Constitution does not allow Third Term, as attempted by his Military colleague, Obasanjo.
It is not too late for Buhari to clean up his hearing devices to listen to Nigerians’ cry, and do something constructive about ‘no confidence’ on his administration. He should work on Boko Haram insurgents, Fulani Cattle Herders invasion, kidnappings, and generally on Security; provided he has the capacity to do that.
As stated by President of China, XI Jinping, could we conclude that: “The only thing a black man has inherited from Arab and European colonization is the religion that he practices and that exactly what the colonizers want. Notice that in black countries, Education is a disaster, the administration is corrupt, health is deplorable, but religion is doing wonderfully well. Black people Rebels against everything EXCEPT religion. They even think they are more RELIGIOUS than those who brought them these concepts and the colonizers are NOT good Christians. Black people even CLAIMED themselves to be the original Race of which Jesus Christ has descended. This is how far black people stupidity can go. Notice that any society that is full of superstition, lack of education and nationalism, is always ridden with violence.”
However, Nigerians can pass ‘Vote of No Confidence’ on Buhari. He has embarrassingly failed Nigeria!
May God save Nigeria from the indolent leaders.
Share this on WhatsApp