Share this on WhatsApp

The apex socio-cultural group of Igbo, Ohanaeze Ndigbo General Assembly Worldwide has called on all political elites, governments and other members of South East region to stand up against the activities of elements wanting to push the region into becoming a theatre of war for the second time through their irresponsible, unpatriotic hate and attacks on security officers.
The group gave the warning while reacting to the gruesome murder killing of All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Alhaji Ahmed Gulak, by suspected members of ESN (IPOB) Group in Owerri, Imo State, on Sunday 30 May, 2021.
READ ALSO: Sowore says he’s been shot by police
Ohanaeze in a statement signed by the group’s Director General Strategic Planning and Implementations, Amb. Tony Chiemelu Obizoba, Ohanaeze, said only an irredeemable fool brings war to his home land.
“We have also listened and read comments about some supposed Igbo group speaking against action of the military, who are working hard to tame the security challenges in the region, thereby creating impression that the Igbo people have an agenda to use IPOB under the disguise of ‘Unknown Gunmen’ against some interest in the South East.
“Enough of hate speeches and fake news by elements making these tools for social vices look like representing the Igbo people of Nigeria. That is not what Igbo stands for. Igbo is about people of culture founded within the threshold of greatness for better society.
READ ALSO: Edo: Finally Ize-Iyamu concedes defeat, congratulates Obaseki
“While we believe that Igbo have the right to be part of the leadership of Nigeria, we insist that we do not use wrong to right a perceived wrong. We must tread with caution and stand up now as governments, traditional rulers and political elites to stop the nonsense with which these devilish elements are projecting the Igbo race in the eyes of the world.
“We reject to accept attitudes, which present Igbo as the black sheep of the Nigerian family and therefore call for cooperation of leaders across the South East with the Federal Government and security forces in their effort to stop insecurity in parts of Nigeria, South East inclusive, for peace to reign.

Share this on WhatsApp