Share this on WhatsApp 
The leadership of the Biafra Nations League (BNL) has condemned the shoot-at-sight order in the southeast issued by the Nigerian government perceived to be tending towards genocide in Biafra land. The National Leader of the Biafra Nations League (BNL), Princewill Chimezie Richard, had admonished that the order is provocative, noting that the Nigerian government plots to provoke the Biafra people into violent protest that could provide opportunity for the government to declare a state of emergency in Biafra land.  The BNL national leader, therefore, warned that the shoot-at-sight order issued by the Inspector General of Police during his visit to Enugu and Port Harcourt, if targeted or enforced on peaceful Biafra protesters could compel their members and supporters to take to arms struggle to liberate Biafra land, which he said would be worse than the arms struggle in Southern Cameroons.
Chimezie Richard expressed perturbation that the federal government plots to destabilize the southeast, instigate more violent uprising by ordering the Police to shoot-at-sight, which the government knows there will be repercussions. Princewill Chimezie Richard further declared that at any point the Nigerian government provokes the Biafran agitators to take to arms and operate like the Boko Haram terrorists, the government should expect worse violence and bloodshed than the pogrom in Sambisa Forest. He cautioned that members of the Biafra Nationals League will not watch the Nigerian military massacre them without expecting exchange of fireworks.
The BNL national leader said the unknown gunmen ravaging the southeast, killing police officers and burning police stations are sponsored by politicians for political reasons, noting that Biafra agitators are not involved in the attacks on security operatives and facilities.
Chimezie Richard threatened that federal government should expect escalation of violence and arms struggle if security operatives commence extrajudicial killing of Biafran agitators and their supporters in the southeast and south-south.
The BNL Deputy National Leader and Head of Operations, Ebuta Akor Takon, ridiculed Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State on his defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressive Congress (APC), saying that BNL is not fighting state governments but at war with the federal government.
He noted that Nigerian politicians have become notorious for defections across parties without genuine reasons except for political fortunes.
The BNL further chided Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State who they group identified as assigning himself the role of a boss in the south-south and the PDP. The group attributed Governor Ayade’s defection to APC to the political hegemony of Wike in the zone. According to BNL, “He believes everything is politics. He was interfering in Cross River State political affairs. He has insulted every Governor in the south-south, believing everything should be all about Rivers State. “He was a boy yesterday but brought up by Chibuike Amaechi, but now he has grown wings.”
The BNL, thereafter, maintained that the 2021 Biafra anniversary will hold on May 29 despite military buildup in the southeast.

 
Share this on WhatsApp