Share this on WhatsApp
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has demanded President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately order the suspension of the Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, to enable him face the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged looting of N1.5 trillion and $9.5 million dollars from the agency.
The PDP in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, articulated that “the reported NIMASA fraud is yet another sad episode of the unending tale of stinking rot in the Buhari-led APC administration, where officials, relations, cronies and persons close to Mr. President have engaged in shameless treasury looting under the protective cover of government.”
The PDP contended that “in allowing the embattled NIMASA DG to continue to stay in office, in the face of these humongous fraud allegations, the Buhari Presidency has further heightened apprehensions in the public space that it is shielding fraudulent individuals because of their reported closeness to Mr. President.”
The party declared that “it is despicable that the Buhari administration that promised zero tolerance for corruption is rather the sanctuary for treasury looters, who as ministers, presidential aides, heads of parastatals, APC leaders and their relatives are daily pillaging the coffers of ministries, department and agencies and stealing trillions of naira belonging to the Nigerian people.”
Ologbondiyan narrated that earlier in May, the nation was jolted by the revelation of a $65 million (N31 billion) fraud in the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN), in which President Buhari’s reportedly estranged son in-law, Gimba Yau Kumo, was  involved.
This FMBN revelation, the he noted,  came on the heels of allegations of looting of over N165 billion in the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) under the ministerial purview of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and the suspended Managing Director, Hadiza Bala Usman.
The party noted that this is in addition to allegations of involvement of the wife of the transportation minister in the exposed N48 billion contract scam currently rocking the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).
“It is saddening that under President Buhari, ministries and agencies of government, including FIRS, NNPC, NEMA, NPA, NIMASA, NHIS, among others, are now Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) from which avaricious officials and APC leaders have stolen over N17 trillion in the last six years, while our nation wallows in poverty, economic hardship and infrastructural decay,” PDP decried.
The Opposition PDP further declared: “Now that the Director General of NIMASA, Dr. Jamoh, had yielded to the demands of investigation by the EFCC, our party holds that he should immediately step aside so that the anti-graft agency will have unhindered access to vital documents on the matter.”
The PDP also charged the EFCC not to succumb to blackmails but move in and commence a rounded investigation on the alleged fraud in NIMASA, including the reported movement of public funds from the Treasury Single Account to private individuals, using the agency as a cover.
Share this on WhatsApp