Share this on WhatsAppA prominent stakeholder in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, Bar. Ken Imansuangbon, a.k.a Rice Man, congratulating Governor Godwin Obaseki and Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu on their victory at the Supreme Court, urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to change their legal weapons to tools and join in building the Edo State of their dreams after the electoral victories of the PDP candidate in the state’s governorship election both at the polls and the Supreme Court. He stated that elections are won at the polls from the popular will of the people not through the court.
Ken Imansuangbon identified as the brand face of Edo politics, accordingly, congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki, Comrade Philip Shaibu and the entire Edo State people for the victory secured resoundingly at the Supreme court, advising the APC leaders to change their weapons to tools so that they can join officially in building the Edo of their dreams for which they are seeking power of the state.
Imansuangbon, a PDP governorship aspirant who stepped down for Governor Obaseki at the party’s primary election after the governor defected to PDP from the APC, declared: “I heartily congratulate my brother and friend, the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, and Comrade Philip Shaibu for this victory. My joy knows no bounds even when I couldn’t attend due to other leadership calls in the state.
“I have always said APC should let Edo move forward by dropping their legal weapons. Elections are won at polling units, not through hearsays and backdoors.
“The National Assembly as a matter of urgency, should look at this aspect in the Electoral Act to do everything possible to capture this in the review bull before it is passed into law. We have seen cases like Imo State where the popular mandate of the people was stolen in court instead of at the polling units where votes are cast.
“My joy today knows no bounds, I am highly elated as we can now breathe… that in spite of the rigorous attempt to snatch the victory through unnecessary court processes, we came victorious at the end of the day at the highest court in the land.”
Imansuangbon maintained that the era of distraction is now over and that the Make Edo Great Again (MEGA) would begin.
“As a matter of fact, I want to enjoin the APC to now show the spirit of sportsmanship, join hands with other well-meaning Edo State people to take this opportunity of building the state of our desire,” Imansuangbon said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp