Share this on WhatsApp

Abidemi Rufai, one of the senior aides to Governor Dapo Abiodun was at the weekend arrested at the JFK Airport in New York on his way out of the US and appeared before a court on May 15 over alleged fraud charges.
He is scheduled for a detention hearing on May 19. He was arrested in the US over alleged $350,000 (about N140 million) unemployment benefits fraud.
Acting U.S. Attorney Tessa M. Gorman accused Rufai of using an alias, Sandy Tang, to steal over $350,000 in unemployment benefits from the Washington State Employment Security Department.
READ ALSO: https://nationaldailyng.com/apc-aspirant-who-doubles-as-yahoo-boy-steals-350k-from-americans-while-serving-as-gov-abiodun-special-adviser/
It was gathered that US law enforcement agents have been tracking the activities of scammers linked to Nigeria exploiting the coronavirus pandemic to commit wire fraud, at least since May 2020.
The 42-year-old property merchant is the owner of Ecobet Sport Betting in Nigeria.
Checks revealed Rufai popularly known as “Ruffy” contested for nomination as APC candidate in Ijebu Central Federal Constituency for House of Representatives in the 2019 election.
He is from Ijebu-Ode and a member of the popular Mayodele Family. Rufai is a graduate of Lagos State University and holds a Masters Degree in Public Administration from the same university.
READ ALSO: Monarch debunks land grabbing allegations against Ned Nwoko
He was appointed in 2019 into Economic Transition Committee and Work Groups by Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun under education, youth and sport category
 He was also appointed by Governor Dapo Abiodun in August 2020 as Senior Special Assistant on special duties before he got suspended.
Meanwhile, the Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has ordered the immediate suspension of the accused appointee.
The governor in a statement restated his commitment to an open, transparent, accountable and morally upright Administration and will not condone any act bordering on criminality by anyone.
Share this on WhatsApp