Share this on WhatsAppThe Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the weekend berated President Muhammadu Buhari over six years of failure in the governance of Nigeria on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The leading Opposition party pre-empted President Buhari’s May 29 speech, which the party anticipated deceptions and the usual prepared text of false performance claims and empty promises rather than acceptance of failure in governance.
The PDP  chided the All Progressives Congress (APC) for beguiling Nigerians with fictitious performance campaign, when, in reality, there is no landmark achievement it initiated and completed for the benefit of Nigerians in last six years.
The PDP cautioned that “President Buhari and the APC must know that Nigerians are no longer interested in their stage-managed Presidential addresses as well as the circus show of their so-called APC Legacy Awareness Campaign, particularly, in the face of the horrendous situation they have plunged our nation.”
It argued: “this is because in the last six years, President Buhari’s speeches have always been litanies of false claims, empty promises and lame excuses for failures, which the APC, in its penchant for lies, propaganda and beguilement, wants to accentuate with their legacy awareness campaign.
“If indeed the Buhari Presidency and the APC have any achievement to showcase, would it be organizing an awareness campaign to seek the understanding of Nigerians for its mass failures?”
The PDP maintained that it is trite wisdom that their works ought to be speaking for themselves like those of the PDP administration which are still being seen today in every sphere of our national life?
“If they have anything to show, would President Buhari be begging that history should be kind to him for his failures? “Would he go to far away Paris, France, to declare that his administration is being plagued by ill-luck,” the PDP noted.
The party vehemently rejected the attempt by APC leaders to claim that their party failed because of the challenges that have befallen the nation, when in reality, the APC and the Buhari Presidency should be held responsible for  their own failures.
“Instead of this desperation to play to the gallery, APC leaders should accept the ugly fact that their lust for power, arrogance, incompetence in governance, unbridled corruption, electoral malpractices, divisiveness, vindictiveness, parochial mindedness, nepotism, disrespect to rule of law; injustice, sectional marginalization, violation of human rights, promotion of hatred and intolerance to dissenting voices had led to the security, economic and political challenges we face today.
“President Buhari and the APC must, therefore, provide answers to why they have failed to forcefully condemn acts of terrorism in our country in addition to why they have failed to take decisive steps to vanquish terrorists, bandits and vandals ravaging our nation.
“They must provide answers on how they wrecked our once thriving economy and turned our nation into the poverty capital of the world with 33.3 unemployment rate and over 60 million Nigerians losing their means of livelihood in a space of six years.
“Nigerians are already aware that our nation is currently plagued by economic hardship, decayed and stagnated infrastructure and over N32 trillion naira accumulated debt because of the incompetence and corruption in the Buhari administration wherein treasury looters as APC leaders, cabinet ministers, presidential aides, heads of parastatals, and their cronies, wives and mistresses are allowed to plunder our vaults and steal over N17 trillion belonging to the people.
“It is imperative for President Buhari and APC to note that Nigerians are already aware that Mr. President and his party are responsible for the woes that had befallen our nation and no amount of false performance claims or so-called legacy awareness campaign can sway the people, PDP declared in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan.
Share this on WhatsApp