Share this on WhatsApp
 
Fresh tension emerged on Tuesday in the Nigerian presidency, as President Muhammadu Buhari appears to be fretting over perceived plans to mobilise for a vote of no confidence on his leadership. accordingly, the presidency raised an alarm over “plot by some disruptive elements to throw Nigeria into turmoil.”
There are indications that the state actors and the political elite are beginning to have cracks in their fold. The insecurity crisis has been worsening the conflicts in the country, including leadership crisis and dwindling economic failures. Pressures for mutual distrust and mutual suspicions are intensifying among the political elite and the state actors.  The heat is permeating into the country’s seat of power, the State House, Abuja, creating uneasiness for the Nigerian president and principal actors in the presidency.
The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in a statement on Tuesday, indicated that the aim of the disruptive elements is to create a situation whereby a vote of no confidence would be passed on President Muhammadu Buhari. He said the disruptive elements are recruiting ethnic leaders across the country for a ‘national’ conference to adopt a vote of no confidence on the president.
Adesina in the statement declared: “further unimpeachable evidence shows that these disruptive elements are now recruiting the leadership of some ethnic groups and politicians round the country, with the intention of convening some sort of conference, where a vote of no confidence would be passed on the President, thus throwing the land into further turmoil.
“The caterwauling, in recent times, by these elements, is to prepare the grounds adequately for their ignoble intentions, which are designed to cause further grief for the country.
“The agent provocateurs hope to achieve through artifice and sleight of hands, what they failed to do through the ballot box in the 2019 elections.
“Nigerians have opted for democratic rule, and the only accepted way to change a democratically elected government is through elections, which hold at prescribed times in the country. Any other way is patently illegal, “and even treasonable. Of course, such would attract the necessary consequences.
“These discredited individuals and groups are also in cahoots with external forces to cause maximum damage in their own country.
“But the Presidency, already vested with mandate and authority by Nigerians till 2023, pledges to keep the country together, even if some unruly feathers would be ruffled in the process.”
The SA to the president on Media and Publicity recalled that the Department of State Services (DSS) had on Sunday alerted the country of plots by misguided elements to wreak havoc on the government, sovereignty, and corporate existence of the country.
The DSS in a statement on Sunday by the Media Director, Peter Afunanya, cautioned the Service will begin a clampdown on agents of anarchy in various parts of the country.
 
Share this on WhatsApp