Share this on WhatsApp
A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mallam Muazu Magaji, has joined those calling for the restructuring of the country, noting that the structure of present Nigeria is not working for the citizens no matter who is the President of Nigeria.
Speaking on Channels Television Sunrise Daily programme on Thursday, Magaji who was a Member, APC Presidential Campaign Council, advocated for what he called ‘Development Federalism’.
ALSO READ: Exposed! US lures citizens with cash, other incentives to get COVID vaccination
According to him: “I am convinced, like many Nigerians across the region that the structure of present Nigeria is not working. I must say it without fear of contradictions that the 1914 Amalgamation of Southern and Northern Nigeria has expired long ago hence the need for us as a people to sit round the table to chart a new federation”.
“We are better together in Nigeria but the structure as presently operated is not working and the remedy is for Nigeria to adopt Development Federalism.
“I am a great believer in Nigeria, I am confident that if the country is restructured. And my idea of Development Federalism is to have the 6 existing geopolitical zones renamed regions with Abuja as the Center.
“By this arrangement, the South East Region known for her great industry and enterprise will be like Japan, home for auto industries and manufacturing. I have been to Nnewi, Anambra state and Aba, Abia state and have seen what our people can do with their hands. The same for the South South Region where we have oil and where the wealth of the country resides.
READ ALSO: RCCG General Overseer, Adeboye loses 42-year old son
“In the same vein, the South West Region known for its Marine or Aquatic lives hold a great economic base for the nation while the 3 Northern Regions of the country houses Nigeria’s solid minerals, agricultural industry and commerce. All these regions will develop at their pace and bring wealth to Abuja being the Centre of the country. This way we will be better for it as a nation”, Magaji concluded.
Meanwhile, the Kano-based politician has urged the younger generation to be involved in party politics to be able to wrestle power from the old brigade.
According to him: “The present generation of Nigerian politicians in power today have been in power for 40 years. I therefore call on youth and women to push for political involvement in order to rescue Nigeria”.
Share this on WhatsApp