Share this on WhatsApp

There’re mounting opposition to the leadership of Senator Ahmad Lawan as some members are already rooting for his removal as senate president over his stands on calls for the country’s restructuring and open grazing.
A member of the House of Representatives, Sergius Ogun, on Monday hinted that a groundswell of opposition has arisen against the senate president and that the development may lead to his impeachment.
READ ALSO: BREAKING: Gunmen attack another police station in Abia
The lawmaker claimed that Lawan’s comments had betrayed his plans to scuttle the on-going constitution amendment project which has the key element of restructuring the Nigerian state.
Ogun who spoke on Arise TV berated the Senate President for being against popular demand for restructuring of the country’s political system.
“The senate president says the state governors should go and restructure their states, my governor the Edo state governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki is restructuring our state and he doesn’t need the permission of the president of the country or that of the senate to do that.
“That is why some of us are asking for devolution of power, how will the man from Yobe know what’s happening in Edo or Bayelsa? It’s better for the man that has the mandate of the people to be given the resources to deliver the dividends of democracy to the mandate givers.
READ ALSO: Leave Nigeria out of your Jihad against Israel, FFK tells Erdogan
“The president of the Senate who’s the chairman of the National Assembly has technically killed the constitution review committee as he showed his bias through his verbal deluge,” Ogun stated.
Recall that the Senate President, while reacting to the demands of the Southern Governors Forum, had said leaders, especially those of us who are elected into office, should not be at the forefront of calling for this kind of thing.
He was quoted to have said, “Because, even if you are a governor, you are supposed to be working hard in your state to ensure that this restructuring you are calling for at the federal level, you have done it in your state as well.
“What you may accuse the Federal Government of, whatever it is, you may also be accused of the same thing in your state.
“We should avoid regionalism. We are all leaders and we are in this together. The solutions to our challenges must come from us regardless of what level of government we are.”

Share this on WhatsApp