Share this on WhatsApp

Farmers in Enugu under the aegis of All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Enugu chapter have said their greatest fears at the moment are the constant attacks on farmers and their farmlands.
Chairman of the group, Romanus Eze who disclosed this in an interview on Tuesday noted that many farmers had abandoned their farmlands for fear of attack, adding that it posed a serious problem to food security in the state and Nigeria at large.
https://nationaldailyng.com/ibarapa-how-herdsmen-maimed-retired-principal-on-his-farm-on-good-friday/
“Lots of farmers face herders attack in Enugu State, and this challenge makes it difficult for farmers to access their farmlands. Most of the farmers are into the Anchor Borrowers Programme, and destruction of farmers’ lands by herders becomes a nightmare for them,” he said.
According to Eze, the development has made farm inputs and foodstuff prices high in markets.
He lamented the effect of untimely delivery of Anchor Borrowers Programme inputs to farmers, adding that such did not speak well for the programme and the farmers.
“Many farmers have been profiled into the Anchor Borrowers Programme on cassava, maize, and rice in Enugu State.
https://nationaldailyng.com/anti-herdsmen-sentiment-threatens-tinubus-2023-ambition/
“Most of the inputs have not been delivered to the farmers, and this is the fifth month of the year. Timing of inputs delivery matters a lot because delivering the input out of season will be of no benefit to the farmers,” Mr Eze explained.
The chairman noted that the first quarter of the 2021 farming season had gone, and yet the government had not flagged off the farming season.
According to him, most farmers, with or without government intervention, have already started farming.
“The farmers started with land preparation in December and January depending on the climate change. Now, many of the farmers have started planting, though the rain is not steady.
“Government needs to support and encourage farmers with quality seeds and advise them on how to go about commercial farming,” Mr. Eze added.
Share this on WhatsApp