Share this on WhatsApp 
Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State at the opening of the 27th National Conference of the Association of Traditional Rulers of Oil Mineral Producing Communities of Nigeria (TROMPCON) in Asaba, Delta State, said that lack of equity and fairness by oil and gas companies is the major cause of violence in the Niger Delta.
Governor Okowa, represented by Deputy Governor Kingsley Otuaro, observed that the theme of the conference, “Relationship between the Oil and Gas Producing Community and the International Oil Companies Operating in the Niger Delta Area: What Impact;” is not only apt but challenging.
The Deputy Governor urged stakeholders in the Niger Delta to critically study the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) and work out modalities on how oil producing communities can utilize the PIB when it comes to fruition.
Barrister Otuaro told Niger Delta people not to be on-lookers but active players in the oil and gas industry.
The Deputy Governor stated that the Niger Delta crisis could be attributed to maltreatment and neglect of the host communities.
He said that communities are entitled to some percentage of the proceeds which must be mutually shared between the oil companies and the host communities, adding that “this will restore confidence and check activities of vandals.”
The Deputy Governor commended the traditional rulers of the Oil Mineral Producing Communities for sustaining peace in their domains.
Otuaro urged the stakeholders to evaluate challenges prevalent with the presence of oil companies such as Shell, Exxon-Mobil, Chevron, Agip Elf and others in the Niger Delta.
“As esteemed custodians of the lands they should bear in mind that consultation and peaceful negotiations far outweigh confrontation.
“We should approach all issues with decorum, maturity and understanding. This involves continuous training of our youths to understand the futility in violence and the enduring virtues of tolerance and peace making.
“However, we should be mindful that most of these international oil and gas companies are gradually divesting from onshore production. We are faced with the stark reality of the past when international oil and gas companies moved their offices out from the Niger Delta thereby depleting the revenue generation of the region”. Otuaro said.
He advised traditional rulers to look into the envisaged Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) to ensure that it serves its purpose.
 
He told Niger Deltans who are key players in the oil and gas industries, finance, as well as legal and community leaders to critically study the PIB and ensure they get immense benefits inherent in it.
The deputy governor was of the view that the Bill will open up prospects not only for big indigenous service companies but also for the locals.
The Chairman of TROMPCON in Delta State, His Royal Majesty, Dr. Emmanuel Sideso Abe 1, Ovie of Uvwie Kingdom, decried that in spite of the great blessings of oil wells and several other natural resources found in various communities, it is a great concern that the much anticipated socio-economic dividends derivable from these resources have continued to elude the people.
The royal father said that traditional rulers are burden bearers in their various communities and have the responsibility to always lead and emancipate the people from economic slavery.
TROMPCON was formed about 30 years ago by traditional rulers of oil minerals producing communities in the Niger Delta States to mobililize and sensitize the people of the region to the benefits of their natural resources.
HRM Abe 1 had declared that TROMPCON must rise to justify her purpose of existence.
Share this on WhatsApp