Share this on WhatsAppSeveral Nigerians on Thursday took to their twitter handles to disagree with the Minister of State for Labour, Festus Keyamo SAN, who in a statement welcoming Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, celebrated the governor as the most progressive, most enlightened, and most accomplished governor.
Majority of the people reacting to the statement of Keyamo are indigenes of Cross River State, who are listing the failures of the governor in the state. Some others were of the view that there is no difference between the APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Keyamo on his twitter handle @fkeyamo on Thursday wrote: “I welcome one of the most cerebral, the most progressive, the most enlightened and the most accomplished Gov, Prof. Ben Ayade, to the fold of the progressives. “As my elder brother & friend from the S/South Region, this is the day we have been waiting for.”
Some stakeholders felt differently.
A stakeholder on his twitter handle @fred_of_Lagos wrote @fkeyamo “Half of the citizens who are graduates in Cross river are unemployed, and you’re hear celebrating the most enlightened and accomplished rubbish…”
Another respondent @ETHELMBA wrote: “I fear for my dear state. The shamelessness of this dude is second to none. Billboards of mediocrity has littered the state. White elephant projects. Let him tell you how many health care professionals are employed by the state. Cross River State is a shadow of itself.”
He @ETHELMBA further said,  @fkeyamo
 “For the record, there is nothing progressive or accomplished about my state governor.”
Also, @bissiriyu argued @fkeyamo “Most progressive, Most enlightened and Most accomplished” Does this mean that he has outweighed all other APC governors all because he just joined your party?”
Again, @PBenayade said: “Cross River State is currently the worst, it has been for the almost 30 years of my existence. Insecurity, economic crisis, poor environmental management has been the order of the day.”
Share this on WhatsApp