Share this on WhatsAppAbout six days after the meeting of southern governors in Asaba, Delta State, where the 17 southern governors in consensus adopted a 12-point communique that have become issues of national discourse, armed men extended their attacks on security facilities to the state. Armed men invaded the Police Divisional Headquarters at Nsukwa, Aniocha South Local Government Area on Sunday, set the station ablaze, killing three police officers.
The armed men struck at the Nsukwa Divisional Police Station, Aniocha South Local Government Area, Delta State, on Sunday, burnt some police vehicles at the station.
The Delta State Police Command is yet to make official statement on the invasion, however, an officer revealed that three policemen were killed. The officer, who insisted he did not have authority to speak for the State Police Command, declined from giving details or identities of the dead police personnel. However, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) and two junior officers, whose designation were yet ascertained were said to be the victims that lost their lives to the armed men who invaded the station.
The Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone 5, Isaac Akinmoyede, was said to have led senior police officers in the zone, including the Commissioner of Police in Delta State, Ari Muhammad, to the scene for an on-the-spot assessment of the destruction.
The police authorities have commenced investigation, with assurance that the perpetrators would be brought to book.
Meanwhile, there were indications that the Niger Delta militants are beginning to regroup to defend the state. Communities were also said to be organizing vigilante groups for self-protection.
It will be recalled that the Mike Okiro Police Divisional Headquarters at the Trademore Estate in Umuahia, Abia State, was attacked last Sunday by armed men.
The Police Divisional Headquarters in Bende Local Government Area, Abia State, was attacked three days later. The station attacked at night was set on fire by the attackers, who injured two policemen.
Share this on WhatsApp