Share this on WhatsAppThe State Working Committee (SWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State has appealed to party members and the public to resist the merchants of falsehood and propaganda whose agenda are to destroy the party in the state. The SWC said that the uneasiness in the state party is a storm in a tea cup. The party leaders assured party members and people of the state that Governor Godwin Obaseki and PDP will continue to deliver on good governance in the state, assuring that the leaders are consulting with all stakeholders to quick reconciliation.
The PDP State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, in a statement indicated that the PDP in Edo State is not oblivious of the uneasy calm that had enveloped the Party and by extension the State in the last few days. He noted that the uneasiness could well be described as a storm in a tea cup!
The SPS disclosed that the State Working Committee has been consulting with various cadres of party leadership, including Governor Godwin Obaseki, identified as the leader of the party in the state, the PDP National Vice Chairman South-South, Chief Dan Osi Orbih, members of the National Assembly elected from the state as well as leaders and stakeholders of the party from the 18 local government areas.
The state SWC, therefore, informed the teeming party supporters and people of Edo State that “the events that led to the unfortunate and regrettable situation are being addressed and in the true PDP spirit of Edo, adding that a lot of progress has been made.
The Edo PDP, therefore, called on all party members and, especially, the general public, “to continue to resist merchants of falsehood and propaganda whose only agenda is to destabilize Edo state.”
The party, therefore, restated that “Governor Godwin Obaseki and PDP are desirous of a state that is prosperous, peaceful, united, secure and healthy.
“A partnership built on cooperation and collaboration.”
The party leaders maintained that Governor Godwin Obaseki and PDP will continue to deliver on good governance.
Share this on WhatsApp