Share this on WhatsAppFormer military President Gen. Ibrahim Babangida has urged Nigerians to cooperate with the military to defeat terrorists.
Gen. Babangida also called on the Federal Government to equip the military with modern weapons and train them on how to use them to decisively resolve insecurity across Nigeria.
He spoke on a BBC Hausa programme monitored in Kaduna yesterday.
Gen. Babangida said the military was doing a lot to address the various security challenges such as banditry, kidnapping and insurgency.
The former military dictator said he believed the insecurity would soon be resolved once the right thing is done.
“They also need to be trained on how to use the modern weapons, not to get weapons and just hand them over to the soldiers. They should be trained.
“It is important to rally round the soldiers and other security agents, support them and let them know the citizens are behind them. Provide them with all they require and let them know this is their country, they have no other country better than this.
“This problem of insecurity, every government has its experience, but if we unite we will overcome it. I remember how we fought the civil war for three years, the people supported the government, the government did its best, bought what was necessary, and those who fought were made to understand that this country is the best for them.
“It’s not only in Nigeria, many countries have encountered this kind of problem. Some had it for 10 years but through concerted effort, they are out of it. I believe we can get out of this problem.
“We should unite, we should support those in power. We are all working towards achieving the same goal. Between the leaders and citizens, we need peace and a harmonious relationship. Both citizens and those governing are trying, but we should know that it is not an easy task,” Gen. Babangida said.
On whether politicians are playing the desired role in bringing an end to insecurity, Gen. Babangida said: “There are many things they’ve to put right. If they agree to sit down and think it over, I believe success will be achieved.”

Share this on WhatsApp