Share this on WhatsApp

Diji Aderogba, Nigerian filmmaker and director of the movie ‘About a Boy’ has expressed excitement on his win as a member of the League of Good Film.
The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that Aderogba’s directorial debut ‘About a Boy’ received the highest honour of the Nollywoodweek Paris Film Festival  for  the ‘Prix du Public Audience Appreciation Win’.
NAN also reports that the feature film won the ‘Prix du Public’ award at the just concluded film festival which was held from   May 6 to  10.
The renowned filmmaker who could not hide his joy , took to his Instagram handle @directordiji to express his excitement.
” Yesterday, we made a statement with our film “ABOUT A BOY” at the just concluded @nollywoodweek film festival in Paris, France. We WON!.
“Thinking about it now, it Feels so good to have won and joined the league of good films that’s won the award in the past.
” Likes of 76, Isoken, The Wedding Party 1, The Meeting, Phone Swap, King Of Boys and now, About A Boy..
“We can’t wait to share this with the public. Congratulations to the cast & crew that made this film,” he wrote.
The movie ‘ About a Boy’, which happens to be a psychological thriller, was announced winner at the closing ceremony of the just concluded festival.
The film beat 15 feature films and 18 short film submissions to the coveted award.
Aderogba, who said he was so grateful to God while receiving the award, used the opportunity to appreciate both producers Adio and Funmi.
“I’m grateful to God. I’m so happy for Adio and Funmi, my producers. They put in a lot of hard work. Being a part of this film festival and winning the Audience Award is just amazing!”.
The thriller, which followed the psychological games played between a writer and his muse, had a line up of Nollywood stars like Chimezie Imo in the lead role with Funmilayo Mustapha, Bolaji Ogunmola and Olumide Oworu in supporting roles.
The film,  produced by Olusola Solanke and Funmilayo Mustapha, had been selected  for this year’s Toronto International Nollywood Film Festival billed for September.



Share this on WhatsApp