Share this on WhatsApp 
The crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is worsening despite Governor Godwin Obaseki’s resolve to retrack his steps over dissolution of the state executive. The crisis is beginning to shift from structural conflicts to inter-personal rivalry, culminating into accusations and counter-accusations between party members.
Accordingly, Elder Dickson Imasogie has accused another PDP chieftain, Charles Idahosa, of double standard in his membership and political activities in the PDP. Dickson Imasogie raised an alarm that Charles Idahosa is having a party card not registered in d ward register. He alleged that Idahosa refused to campaign for his Governor and the PDP throughout during the November 2020 governorship election.  Imasogie insisted that Idahosa only followed Governor Obaseki’s campaign team to Ehor, which is his village, and went back. “All the time, he stayed with APC, he did not attract any single project to his lga or village.
Dickson Imasogie
“I led the campaign to every unit and ward in the local government and made promises to the electorate because of no performance of the Council chairman.
“I spent my resources before, during and after the election to fulfill the promises we made to the electorate.
“The same Charles Idahosa collected the party’s fund for the election and shared it to his favourites.
Charles Idahosa
“I reported this at a state caucus meeting at the Government House. Up till today nothing is done. “This is now PDP super leader asking for the dissolution of the constituted executive.
“To cover his wrong doings, he lied against me to the party and the Governor,” Imasogie declared.
Imasogie insisted that he had asked for the hearing of the matter and when the state chairman invited them, Idahosa refused to attend.
Imasogie added that he also reminded the Governor of the matter and requested him to hear the matter with the state chairman, but till date, nothing has been done, as Idahosa continues to evade invitations for clarification on the controversial issues.
Imasogie also berated Idahosa for seeking equity without clean hands; as well as desperate to reap where he did not sow.
Share this on WhatsApp