Share this on WhatsApp 
The build up to the local government election in Lagos State is seemingly throwing up new political order, essentially, the emerging ‘godfathers’ contending to install candidates at the All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries on Saturday. The political dynasty of the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, appears shaky in the emerging political order in Lagos State. This is more so as most political leaders in the state are laying the foundation of their ambitions in the 2023 general elections with the local government election, fighting to sponsor candidates on the APC ticket for the council poll.
The emerging order has precipitated infighting between the emerging godfathers in the APC battling the ensure their respective aspirant get the party ticket. They have taken over the main contest for the APC tickets to be decided on Saturday, May 29, at the party’s primaries across the state.
However, Tinubu, being sensitive to the imminent danger of the emerging order, is deploying the machinery of conflict resolution of the party structure to mediate and create a scene of consensus building in the post-primary era.
The leading state and political actors involved in the power configuration contest, according to party sources, include Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, representing Surulere Federal Constituency; Hon. James Faleke, representing Ikeja Federal Constituency; Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Mudashiru Obasa, Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat, Cardinal James Odunmbaku – Baba Eto, member of the APC Governors’ Advisory Council (GAC); and others.
A former member of the House of Representatives, Hakeem Muniru, is battling with Bayo Olasoju, incumbent Vice Chairman of Isolo LCDA, for the APC chairmanship ticket in the Council. Olasoju is the Campaign Manager of Wasiu Ayinde – KI De Ultimate.
Olasoju is taking advantage of KI De Ultimate’s close relationship with Tinubu and Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Mudashiru Obasa, to defeat his opponent, Hon. Hakeem Muniru, for the APC chairmanship ticket at the primary election on Saturday.
There appears to be a double-edge influence in the power tussle for the Isolo LCDA chairmanship ticket. Muniru was former Chief Protocol in the Tinubu tenure. However, there is pressure on the former lawmaker to step down for Olasoju for the July 24 local government election in the state.
A Senior Special Assistant on Political Matters to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Peter Ajayi, attempts to deploy the incumbent powers of the Government House to his advantage for the APC chairmanship ticket in Ejigbo Local Council Development Area. he, however, suffered set back at the screening where he was not cleared to contest the party primaries. He is, however, pressing on in defiance of the decision of the screening committee which met at the APC Secretariat at Acme Road, Ikeja last Tuesday.
The opponent, incumbent Chairman of Ejigbo LCDA, Monsurudeen Obe, was cleared at the screening.  Party sources disclosed that Ajayi failed present the requisite credentials for clearance.
The Deputy Governor Lagos State, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, has been fingered in political maneuvers to secure the APC chairmanship tickets for aspirants in Epe and six tickets in Ikorodu councils.
Speaker Obasa is not given anything to chance in the contest for the chairman ticket in Agege.
The Speaker, accordingly, endorsed the incumbent Chairmen of Agege LG, Kola Egunjobi; including Sunday Babatunde of Orile Agege council, sponsoring them for second term.
Obasa is also drawn into political turmoil over his incursion into other territories to determine who gets the APC tickets in six local councils in Alimosho, which comprises Alimosho LG, Agbado Oke-Odo LCDA, Ayobo Ipaja LCDA, Egbe Idimu LCDA, Igando Ikotun LCDA and Mosan-Okunola LCDA.
The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, has been missing in action.
Speaker Obasa has been linked to senatorial ambition in 2023, aspiring for the APC ticket in Lagos West Senatorial District.
The Speaker may be contesting the  Lagos West ticket with Musiliu Obanikoro.
As earlier reported, a member of the House of Representatives member, James Faleke, is having a running battle with Cardinal James Odunmbaku – Baba Eto – in Ojodu LCDA,
Faleke is sponsoring Alhaja Funmi Layeni, as Baba Eto is imposing his son, Segun Odunmbaku, incumbent Council Secretary, for the chairmanship ticket of the party.
There was the insinuation that a list of anointed candidates in the 57 councils was sent to the APC national leader, Tinubu, but he disputed the report, declaring that he has not endorsed any aspirant for the APC LG ticket.
APC youth wing is also protesting any plot to anoint or impose candidates for the LG election in Lagos. Many youths have questioned why party members over 50 years are contesting the council election.
 
Share this on WhatsApp