Share this on WhatsAppThe well-renowned Healing School host yet another transformative programme – the Global Miracle Faith Seminar, a two-day healing meeting which begins today May 14 and concludes tomorrow May 15, 2021.
The Global Miracle Faith Seminar is an extension of the healing ministry of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome. It has the sole aim of following up on graduate students of the past Healing School Sessions with the man of God, Pastor Chris. It keeps check on its students by constantly delivering the Word of God that restored them to ensure they are stayed in perfect health.
During the programme, past students of the Healing School are given the opportunity to testify of their healing miracles as well as share praise reports of how well their healing testimonies have made global impact. It’s usually an amazing time for fellowship where the attendees are stirred by the overwhelming testimonies shared by these students who are now ambassadors, having received their healing and lived in constant health for years.
ALSO READ: Fever-Pitch excitement as miracles precede Pastor Chris’ Global Healing Crusade
“In the course of this event, many of the participants will receive their own healing – be it their physical health, finances, family or any area of their lives they need a touch from God. Get ready to receive as it is going to be a life-changing program for all who attend. It’s sure going to be a parade of testimonies and miracles. Join us in this extraordinary time of fellowship as we reach many across the world with God’s healing power,” a publicity post from the organizers said.
ALSO READ: Largest Ever Healing Crusade with Pastor Chris Set to Take Airwaves Globally
The Global Miracle Faith Seminar with Pastor Chris will hold from the 14th to 15th of May 2021, by 4:00pm (GMT+1) each day. You could register now on www.healingstreams.tv/gmfs . Live participation will be via the website: www.healingstreams.tv or on the Healing School Mobile App (available for download on the Google Play Store and Apple App Store). Kindly check the website for more enquiries.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp