Share this on WhatsAppBy Professor Echefuna’ R. G. ONYEBEADI
The recent outburst of Alhaji Abubakar Malami who is supposed to be the *Minister of Justice* of the country against the legitimate decision of the Governors of Southern Nigeria on their ban of cow movement and open grazing in Southern Nigeria is, to say the very least, highly illogical, illegal, unconstitutional, very unprofessional and totally unbecoming of the high office of an Attorney-General of the country Nigeria in a federation.
Why Alhaji Malami specifically chose the ‘spare parts dealers’ for his unprovoked shallow untenable diatribe and shadow chasing is best known to him.
Why single out only ‘spare parts dealers’ of all trades and businesses in Nigeria for his incoherent and illogical comparison if not for a premeditated sinister motive?
Let Alhaji Malami be reminded that, the spare part dealers anywhere in Nigeria are legitimate peaceful entrepreneurs.
They do not carry out their trade by force of arms!
They do not trespass on peoples properties.
They don’t rape, maim, kidnap and kill people not to talk of doing so in other peoples ancestral lands and homes.
They don’t dispossess people of their inheritance and forcefully occupy and rename peoples villages and homes after killing or forcefully displacing the owners.
Spare parts dealers are not being promoted by any government in any form whatsoever including financing and security agents special protection to commit havoc anywhere throughout Nigeria!
They do not constitute any threat to life and properties anywhere.
Spare parts dealers are not illegal immigrants but full fleshed citizens of Nigeria.
Spare parts dealers don’t live or forcefully occupy indigenous ancestral bushes and forest reserves of State Governments.
They live peacefully among the people where they do their businesses and contribute meaningfully to wellbeing of the communities they do businesses.
I am not aware of any spare parts dealers who do not legitimately rent and pay for his business premises and/or lawfully acquire and pay for land for his business and residence anywhere they are domiciled.
They are among the highest tax payers and IGR generators wherever they do business.
They contribute immensely to the economic development of wherever they do business!
They are not wanderers looking for people to dispossess, rape, kidnap, maim and kill.
They are not bloodthirsty jihadists, bandits and religious bigot that imposes their world view on others in the name of religion for very selfish reasons.
They are nation builders and not destroyers!
They are loving and God fearing people who are creating jobs the governments failed to create and are benefitting humanity even globally!
Can Alhaji Abubakar Malami say same thing for the terrorists illegal immigrants killer fulani herdsmen?
Sometimes, I wonder what qualifies this man called Alhaji Abubakar Malami for the high position he presently occupies?! – a supposedly Chief law officer of the country who is forever standing the law on its head!
There is hardly any legal aberration that is committed by this Major-General Muhammadu Buhari’s regime that is not traceable to this man called Alhaji Abubakar Malami!
All the constitutional breaches in this Major-General Muhammadu Buhari’s regime are traceable to this man called Alhaji Abubakar Malami including but not limited to, spending billions of hard currency on imaginary arms procurement without any appropriation and/or aproval of the National Assembly, withdrawal of Presidential assent on improved Electoral Bill, illegal removal of a presiding Chief Justice of the Federation, unlawful administration of the country by the President from foreign land, imposition of his unqualified cousin as the Chairman of EFCC after making the predecessor to unlawfully act for an unimaginable period of about six years as *acting Chairman* of EFCC contrary to the laws and schemes of service in the country, the highly disrespectful disposition of Major-General Muhammadu Buhari not to be accountable to the people of Nigeria, the unjustifiable accumulation of foreign debts and borrowings for unverfiable projects, the open defiance of the President to the invitation of the National Assembly and the disdain of the President to address the country on pertinent national matters particularly, the insecurity situation of the country among many other infractions!
Perhaps, this man called Alhaji Abubakar Malami should be reminded that the position he occupies in trust is that of *Minister of Justice* and the *Attorney-General of the “Federation”* and NOT the Attorney-General of the Fulanis.
Share this on WhatsApp