Share this on WhatsApp 
The Biafra Nations League (BNL) has declared war in the Gulf of Guinea which the secessionist group claims to be under its control extending to the Bakassi Peninsula. The BNL National Leader, Princewill Chimezie Richard; the Deputy National Leader, Ebuta Akor Takon; the Chief of General Staff, Linus Essien, and Chief Head of Operations, Henry Edet, in a joint statement at the weekend mandated BNL members and supporters in the Gulf of Guinea to defend themselves if attacked by military forces from Cameroon or Nigeria.
BNL National Leader, Princewill Chimezie Richard; the Deputy National Leader, Ebuta Akor Takon; the Chief of General Staff, Linus Essien; and Chief Head of Operations, Henry Edet; in the joint statement emphasized that they have the mandate to protect the Biafra territory in the Gulf of Guinea under their control in line with activities in other Biafra territories, including the Bakassi Peninsula. They cautioned that BNL military activities in the Gulf will be tough compared to what is happening in other Biafra territories. They admonished President Mohammadu Buhari of Nigeria and President Paul Biya of Cameroon, to resist the temptation of undermining the military might of the BNL and resorting to the use of military operations to suppress the peaceful movement.
The BNL, accordingly, admonished President Biya and the government of Cameroon not to interfere with the BNL activities and desist from violent confrontation with their members. They threatened that on the slightest provocation, the militia loyalists of BNL will invade Douala, a French speaking town, if the BIR attempt another attack on BNL members.
The BNL leaders displayed video relaying some masked men identified as Militias in the Bakassi Peninsula under their control. The masked men are believed to be on security surveillance and were said to have placed ban on all foreign vessels entering Nigeria and Cameroon from the Atlantic from May 30.
The Biafra nation would be marking the anniversary of Biafra declaration May 30, 1967, which precipitated the Nigerian Civil War.
Share this on WhatsApp