Share this on WhatsApp 
Bandits have created renewed tension in Niger State after invading the farm of an Emir, killing people working in his farm, including the eldest son.
A gang of bandits had on Thursday killed the eldest son of an Emir in Niger State and other persons who were working in the farm of the traditional. National Daily gathered that the bandits killed the eldest son of the Emir of Kontagora, Bashir Namaska, in his father’s farm together with other people working in the farm at Masuga on the Kontagora-Rijau Road in Niger State.
It was disclosed that the son of the Emir was the Sardauna of Kontagora and was said to be standing in the gap for his father, the Sarkin Sudan, who was said to be sick few months back.
The bandits had shot the Emir’s son on Thursday, unfortunately, while rushing him to the hospital, he died on the way and was confirmed dead as they arrived the hospital.
Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State decried the killing of the apparent heir to the throne, lamenting that it is heart-breaking and devastating. He extended his solidarity and condolence to the traditional ruler and the people of Kontagora Emirate.
Governor Bello had said: “It is really disheartening to hear about the death of Bashir, especially at a time when intense military operations are ongoing in some parts of the state to rid the state of criminal elements.
“As painful as the death is, the situation will only spur my administration to ensure that the fight against banditry in the state is won.
“My deepest condolence goes to the Emir and the people of Kontagora Emirate as this is indeed a great loss, but we should all be consoled by the fact that it is a necessary end for all mortals”.
Bashir, born in 1979, was the Director-General of the Niger State Public Procurement Board between 2013 and 2015. He was also identified to have served Kontagora Emirate in significant positions, which include being the District Head of Kontagora I and Sardaunan Kontagora, the positions he held until his death, among others.
The activities of bandits have been on the rise in Niger State since the beginning of this year. The bandits have been giving the Nigerian government sleepless nights as no solution to the insecurity crisis appears to be available to the government.
 
Share this on WhatsApp