Share this on WhatsApp




The governors of the 17 states in the south are holding regional meeting in Asaba, Delta State, on Tuesday. The meeting was convened to deliberate on the increasing insecurity in the country and the infiltration of crime perpetrators into the south from the other divide of the country.
The southern governors have been making individual and zonal efforts to contain the increasing insecurity in their respective jurisdictions, but are considering a collective action and consensus building on solutions to the woes in the country.
The south has become penetrated by bandits, killer herdsmen, kidnappers, and others, increasing security risks and threats of uncertainty.
The governors of the southwest states, after wide consultations and consensus, established the Amotekun security structure in the southwest. However, the Lagos State government has been reluctant in the security arrangement.
In the southeast, the governors recently established EbubeAgu security vigilante to work with the Nigeria Police, Army and others.
The southeast also has another illegal security structure, Eastern Security Network (ESN), set up by a non-state actor, Nnamdi Kanu.
The south-south governors are yet to set up a zonal security outfit in the Niger Delta states, though, some of the governors have set up strong vigilante groups in their respective jurisdiction.
The emergent attacks on security facilities and personnel by those identified as unknown gunmen, in the south have become serious issues for deliberation by the southern governors. Police stations, Prisons, and other are being burnt by the unknown gunmen; police officers and soldiers being killed with impunity. Some states in the south have become theatres of bloodshed, and destruction of property by gunmen.
Governor Rotimi Akeredolu actively participated in convening the southern governors meeting in Asaba on Tuesday.
Governors participating in the meeting include the host governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor Akeredolu, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, among others. The meeting did not recognize party differences or affinity.
Meanwhile, the communique of the meeting is being awaited at the time of this report.
 





Share this on WhatsApp