Share this on WhatsApp




The Nigeria Police has tasked parents and guardians on the proper up-bringing of children, in order to stem crime and vices in the society.
CSP Ebere Amaraizu, National Coordinator, Police Campaign Against Cultism and Other Vices (POCACOV), gave the charge while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu, on Thursday.
Amaraizu spoke on the margins of the celebration of the 2021 Children’s Day, usually observed globally on May 27, as stipulated by the United Nations, as a day to reflect and create awareness on the wellbeing of children.
The national coordinator, who congratulated Nigerian children on the celebrations, reminded parents, guardians and other stakeholders on the need to take responsibility for the wellbeing of any child under their care.
“Parents or guardians/caregivers must ensure that children are given the right platforms that will enable them to attain self discovery and strategic leadership directions.
“This will veritably make these young minds contribute meaningfully to the national growth and development,’’ he said.
Amaraizu urged parents to also identify and cooperate with the Nigeria Police, through POCACOV, on the ongoing nationwide campaign against cultism, substance abuse, violence, sexual and gender based violence.
“We all have a stake in reorienting our children and youths on values and morals and to ensure that they are not involved in deviant behaviours, which will shut them off from becoming champions.
“We should also work together to ensure that their rights are protected because they are special gifts from God,’’ he said.
He urged parents to, therefore, censor what their children watched on television and their activities around social media; while giving them proper guidance.
“The ongoing campaign is strategic as provided by the Nigeria Police. It is a community driven activity in line with the tenets of community-oriented policing, involving different stakeholders,’’ he said.





Share this on WhatsApp