Share this on WhatsAppThe Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), a platform for governors elected under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Tuesday advised the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to sheathe their sword over the industrial face-up with Kaduna State Government.
A 5-day warning strike by the NLC entered its second day on Tuesday with labour grounding all sectors of the state over irreconcilable differences over right-sizing of local government staff.
The Progressive Governors in a statement by its Chairman, Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State in Abuja on Tuesday appealed to the organized labour saying “this is not the time for muscle flexing.”
The governors expressed concern over the attendant effects of the face-up between the State Government and the labour, stressing that Nigerians are already overstretched with many challenges, hence the need for the two sides to return to dialogue.
Bagudu said the governors have been following unfolding development between Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Kaduna State Government over the issue of rightsizing Local Government employees with deep concerns.
Appealing for the understanding of NLC and other patriotic Nigerians, the governors noted “the challenges facing all our states, especially given dwindling revenue and persuaded the organized labour to demonstrate more commitment toward engaging governments at all levels to address problems. Insisting that, “This is not the time for muscle-flexing.”
“We want to appeal to the NLC leadership to recognise that the burden of leadership at this point is more about responding to challenges based on the honest disposition of correcting past mistakes.
“As Progressive Governors, we share the vision of Kaduna State Government of reforming all our Local Governments to make them more efficient and consequently the pivot of critical development initiatives.
“At the same time, we want to appeal to the Kaduna State Government under the leadership of our colleague, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai to take all necessary steps to ensure the resolution of all disagreements in the larger interest of citizens in Kaduna State.”
The governors then expressed confidence that both Kaduna State Government and NLC will resolve all outstanding issues and restore industrial harmony in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp