Share this on WhatsAppThe people of Igbo nation while complying with the sit-at-home order by the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, further celebrate the IPOB leader as a millennium leader that deserves the compliance and solidarity of the Igbo people.
The people celebrate Kanu as a leader that can be trusted and relied on for their freedom and the independence of the Sovereign State of Biafra in the southeast.
Several Igbo stakeholders took to their twitter handles to eulogise Kanu as their leader.
One of the Igbo stakeholders on his twitter handle @Emekannaoma declared: “Like him or hate him, the fact is that Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is the true leader of the people. No political leader in Nigeria can shutdown activities or movements the way Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has done. Everywhere is completely shutdown. A man without any political appointment, he is a force.”
Another stakeholder @_Ikennna wrote: “Nnamdi Kanu is not even in Nigeria, but if you think people in the Southeast don’t listen to him, think again.”
Outside the Igbo land, a Nigerian citizens commended the courage of the IPOB leader to sustain the Biafra struggle to the current level in Nigeria.
The citizen, taking to his twitter handle @Benking452 emphasised: “If you think today’s #SitAtHome directive by Nnamdi Kanu is not necessary or is not important for the remembrance and mourning of the millions of Igbos that were slaughtered then you’re a clown.
“Sit at home regardless.”
“Though I’m Yoruba, I must commend the IPOB for this commitment they’re really showing towards achieving this Biafra course.
“The #SitAtHome order is being adhered to fully. I’m sure in no time, these people will not give a damn about anything concerning Nigeria anymore… Nnamdi Kanu.”
However, a citizen from northern Nigeria and notable politician, Adamu Garba, condemned the actions and alleged rebellion against the Igbo nation for complying with the sit-at-home order even in peaceful ways. Garba on his official twitter handle @adamugarba declared:
“There is only one Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and that is President Buhari
@MBuhari, and he alone can give public holidays or stay-at-home orders, not some fugitive coward – Nnamdi Kanu. Obeying a terrorist is a reflection of state rebellion.”
But an Igbo stakeholder had a different view against the external opinion on Kanu. On his twitter handle @Uzomaka_Kelechi he declared: “One man called Nnamdi Kanu ordered all Igbos to sit at home and honour Biafra fallen heroes of the civil war, and they did. Even in his absence, his impact is felt. He stood by his words for over a decade, and it came to pass. MAZI YOU ARE A TRUE LEADER #SitAtHome Yorubas, arewa.”
Share this on WhatsApp