Share this on WhatsAppAs the strike and street protest of organized labour enters the third day in Kaduna, the state Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai has vowed that Comrade Ayuba Wabba and other labour will never come back to Kaduna when his government is done with them.
El-Rufai who stated this, while addressing the 23rd Annual Tax Conference organised by the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) in Kaduna on Wednesday, described the labour leaders as criminals.
He said actions of the labour union under the auspices of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), which prevented businesses like banks, petrol stations and others from opening, is criminal, illegal.
The Governor pointed out that his government was not against the right of workers to embark on strike, but such workers must walk out of their work place and allow it to function without them.
While he emphasized that workers or their union do not have the right to stop any business or government establishment from opening, El-Rufai said those responsible for such are liable to be convicted on the Miscellaneous Offences Act which attracts a minimum penalty of 21 years imprisonment.
According to him, “there are efforts to prevent legitimate businesses from open, there are efforts to prevent banks from opening and also prevent petrol stations from dispensing fuel, this is totally criminal and illegal and we are going to take action.
“We are making efforts to provide security for all businesses that will wish to remain open. We are not against the right to strike; you are free to strike, but walk away from your institution and allow it to function without you.
“You have no right to stop any business from remaining open and we are going to take very strict measures against people that have tried to do that.
“What this strike is about is to answer fundamental questions, the first of which is this; should an employer keep a person of poor education, inadequate skills, qualifications and bad work attitude in employment, whether he likes it or not? Our answer in Kaduna state is in the negative.
“We as employers are in a contract of employment with the employee and if he is not up to scratch, we will let him go and that is included in our contract of service.
“The second question is this, is the right to protest or to withdraw services of an employee equivalent to the right to destroy the institution in which you work; shut it down or attack public infrastructure? Our position is very clear, law is very clear, you can walk out, you can strike, but you cannot shut anything down.
“Public infrastructure is a public asset belonging to the federation which belongs to all the people in Nigeria and you have no right to shut it down and if you do, you are liable to be convicted on either the Miscellaneous Offences Act which attracts a minimum penalty of 21 years imprisonment.”
El-Rufai said his government was going to pursue those engaged in this sabotage to the full extent of the law.
According to him, “I want to assure you that we will break the strike and deal with the criminals, prosecute all those that have broken the law to the fullest extent and I assure you that they will never come back to the state again by the time we are done with them.”

 
Share this on WhatsApp