Share this on WhatsApp 
Ogun Gov Dapo Abiodun special adviser has been arrested in the US for unemployment benefit frauds running to $350,000.
The special aide, Abidemi Rufai, was caught at the John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York on Friday morning.
The 42-year-old, who initially aspired for House Reps in the APC before he was appointed special adviser, risks 30 years in jail if he is convicted as faces detention hearing May 19.
According to the US Department of Justice, District of Washington, Rufai used the pseudonym Sandy Tang and the stolen identities of more than 100 Washington residents to file fraudulent claims with Employment Security Department for unemployment benefits last year during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Acting US Attorney Tessa M. Gorman also revealed the Ogun governor’s special aide filed fraudulent unemployment claims with Hawaii, Wyoming, Massachusetts, Montana, New York, and Pennsylvania.
“Rufai used variations of a single e-mail address in a manner intended to evade automatic detection by fraud systems. By using this practice, Rufai made it appear that each claim was connected with a different email account,” said Gorman.
The criminal complaint also revealed how Rufai mailed some of the proceeds of his fraud to the Jamaica and New York addresses of his relatives with more than $288,000 deposits between March and August 2020.
“Since the first fraud reports to our office in April 2020, we have worked diligently with a federal law enforcement team to track down the criminals who stole funds designated for pandemic relief,” said Gorman.
“This is the first, but will not be the last, significant arrest in our ongoing investigation of ESD fraud.”
Special Agent in Charge FBI Seattle, Donald Voiret, said, greed motivated Rafiu.
“Unfortunately, the greed alleged to this defendant affects all taxpayers. The FBI and our partners will not stand idly by while individuals attempt to defraud programs meant to assist American workers and families suffering the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic.”
The governor Rufai serves has yet to make official statement on the arrest
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp