Share this on WhatsApp



A Lagos lawmaker,  Hon. Temitope Adewale has tasked Nigerian youths to be more focused on being self reliant through acquisition of entrepreneurial skills than focusing on politics to survive .


Adewale made the assertion  while speaking at the first annual Ramadan lecture and Special Prayer Session for Asiwaju Tinubu and the Speaker of the State’s House of Assembly, Rt(Hon) Mudashiru Obasa,held in his constituency.

The lawmaker gave his view on the theme: “How Can We Eliminate Poverty and Insecurity?’, he notes that rising poverty index and unemployment have spiked up insecurity in Nigeria.

The young and vibrant lawmaker counsel youths to take up professional skills and never rely on politics to survive, adding that government should encourage entrepreneurship and make policies that would benefit the grassroots.


He described the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as the pillar of Nigeria democracy and architect of modern Lagos, saying that If the presidency is zoned to the Southwest, Tinubu remains the best for it.

He added that the APC National Leader has what it takes to move the country forward.


Commenting on the ravaging insecurity in the country, Adewale has counseled President Buhari to improve in providing adequate security for the people, saying that he should ensure the security apparatus in the country are effective.

The lawmaker who applauded Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his efforts in providing jobs for the teeming youths and securing Lagos, intensified clamour for state police, adding that, ” Once we decentralised policing, we will have effective and robust police institution that can garner information to tackle insecurity within the states”.


Earlier, the Guest Lecturer and Chief Missioner of Muslim Community in Ifako/Ijaiye local government, Imam Shuaib Atata, said poverty is human-made problem of the society, advising Nigerians to acquire relevant skills that would take them out of poverty.

Atata said it would be suicidal for people to rely on politicians for survival, adding that political office holders sometimes might be overwhelmed by their regular financial demands.

The Cleric advised government officials to continue to empower people around them, saying that it had positive effect on the economy and as well address insecurity.

He said that for the country to be out of the insecurity challenges, everyone must see security as a collective responsibility.

Atata added there must be unity among Nigerians before they would be able to fight insecurity, advising people to always verify any information at their disposal before disseminating it.

The ramadan lecture was attended by the Executive Chairmen of Ifako/Ijaiye local council and Ojokoro LCDA, Apostle Oloruntoba Oke and Mr Hammed Tijani respectively.
Others are; the House of Representatives member representing Ifako/Ijaiye, Hon. James Owolabi, Vice Chairman of Ifako/Ijaiye, Mr Usman Hamzat, former lawmaker Saka Fafunmi, former Chairman of Ifako/Ijaiye, Mr Demola Doherty, former Representatives member, Hon. Akinwunmi Olaitan, Ifako Ijaiye APC Chieftains and some members of the House of Assembly.






Share this on WhatsApp