Share this on WhatsApp 
First, it was Antonio Conte and Inter Milan. Next, it was Zinedine Zidane and Real Madrid and now it is Andrea Pirlo leaving Juventus after leading them to the Coppa Italia and the Supercoppa Italiana titles.
Meanwhile, report reaching National Daily reveals that Massimiliano Allegri is set to re-join the Old Ladies in a sensational reunion.
National Daily further gathered from the report by Sky in Italy that the Turin club are close to announcing the return of Massimiliano Allegri to replace Pirlo, with the 53-year-old expected to re-sign within the next 24 hours.
Pirlo took over from Maurizio Sarri in August last year and though losing the Serie A title to Inter Milan, while finishing 4th, but the former Juventus midfield maestro was able to guide the Turin giants to the Coppa Italia and Suppercoppa Italiana titles in his inaugural season.
Juventus on Friday, issued the following message to Pirlo upon his departure from the Allianz Stadium: “Thank you, Andrea.
“These are the first words that all of us need to say at the end of this special experience together. A few months ago, Andrea Pirlo, an icon of world football, began his new adventure, his first as a coach.
“To do this, first of all, it takes courage, as well as awareness of one’s own means, especially in a period marked by thousands of difficulties, with the world forced by the pandemic to reinvent its own rules day after day.
“Pirlo has just begun the first steps of what will no doubt become a brilliant career as a coach. An adventure of transformation, seeking, and often managing, to bring his ideas and his experience as a champion on the pitch from the “other side” of the fence.
“And since in football, what counts are the victories, let’s remember them: in the space of a few short months Pirlo’s Juve has raised two trophies: The Italian Supercup and the Coppa Italia. And he, as coach, brought home brilliant victories on the most prestigious of fields, from San Siro to Camp Nou.
“For all this, for the courage, the dedication, the passion with which he demonstrated every day, our thanks go to the Maestro, the Coach and to Andrea, that really comes from the heart. As well as our good luck for the future that will surely be a wonderful one.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp