Abubakar Shekau
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppNigerians have taken to various social media platforms to react to the reported killing of the dreaded leader of Boko Haram, Abubakar Shekau, for the fourth time, who was said to have died in his hideout in Sambisa Forest on Wednesday. Reports indicated that Shekau was killed during exchange of gunfire on Wednesday between his group and the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP).
However, several Nigerians took to their twitter handles to respond differently to the death of Abubakar Shekau, known as Jama’at Ahl as-Sunnah Lid Da’wah Wa’l- Jihad (JAS), which they said has been claimed over four times.
The reports are still unverified, virtually everyone acknowledged it is a good thing to happen.
One of the respondents on twitter @bulamabukarti stated: “For those reaching out to me, I’m keeping tabs on the multiple reports that Shekau has been killed by ISWAP. The news is becoming more and more likely, but not yet definitive from my side. If the longest lasting terrorist leader has been killed, that will be a huge turning point.”
Another respondent, @Real_Simk36 wrote: “Breaking news: Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau was killed for the 4th times yesterday.”
It was observed Sambisa Forest shares border with parts of Konduga, Bama, Gwoza Askira Uba, Hawul, Kaga and Biu Local Government Areas in Borno State, including some parts of Gujiba, Buni Yadi, Goniri in Yobe State, and Madagali in Adamawa State.
It was narrated that hundreds of ISWAP fighters combed the Sambisa forest with heavy gun trucks in search of Shekau, factional leader of Boko Haram. It was revealed that Shekau was not directly killed by ISWAP. He was said to  have blew himself up, committed suicide to evade being captured live by ISWAP when they were at close range to pick him alive.
The celebration, however, continued on social media on Thursday morning.
Acknowledging, @DejiAdesogan wrote: “CONFIRMED: Abubakar #Shekau, One of the longest surviving Jihadist leaders in the world has died after detonating an explosive device to evade arrest or surrender his leadership. Detailed report by Humangle says #ISWAP took over the #BokoHaram Sambisa enclave following clashes.”
One of the celebrants wrote on his twitter handle @Omojuwa “If you are sad about Shekau’s death, hiding your sadness under one agenda or the other, please accept my condolences. And if the death of terrorists makes you sad, more condolences to you in the coming days and years, by God’s grace!”
Another respondent felt differently. According to the stakeholder @Omojuwa “I don’t see any reason for rejoicing because we have handful of reckoning ahead of us but time will tell. There’s nothing to celebrate here bandit are merging working within ISWAP and they are closed to the capital Abuja.”
Several others expressed different opinions on the death of the Boko Haram leader.
 
Share this on WhatsApp