Share this on WhatsAppThe five states of the southeast were on Monday shutdown in total compliance with the stay-at-home order issued by the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, in commemoration of the 54th  anniversary of the declaration of Biafra.

National Daily gathered that economic, social and commercial activities were completely halted in the southeast and neighbouring states. Commercial vehicles from other states of the federation are being restricted from entering Igbo land on Monday, none was also allowed exit from the states of the southeast. Shops and other stores, including artisan’s workshops, were also shut down and no one dared to seek any service or take to the streets in search of any product to buy.
The streets are apparently deserted in various states. The Main Market, Onitsha, which is an international market of the sub-region, has become a ghost zone on Monday. Nnewi, Awka and other big towns in Anambra State were also paralysed.
The spokesman of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Emma Powerful, had while relaying the stay-at-home order to the people in the southeast zone, declared: “the human and vehicular movement would be restricted across the southeast on Monday to mark the 54th anniversary of Biafra.”
Accordingly, the major cities in the southeast which include Owerri and other big towns in Imo State, Umuahia, Aba and other big towns in Abia State, were paralysed by social activities; the streets were empty of people, while there was no vehicular movement.
The only activity in all the states of the southeast comes from the Nigerian Army and the Nigeria Police deployed to strategic positions across the states. Their activity is, however, minimal since there are no people to enforce any law on, as they are all home.
The military men were said to have been deployed to all the five states of the southeast earlier before now. From Anambra to Abia, Imo, Ebonyi and Enugu states, the Nigerain Army personnel were being moved en masse in the early period of last week.
Governor David Umahi attempted to assuage the people and promised them that no resident will be punished if he or she decides to go out for business or stay at home.
The Biafra phenomenon was said to have spilled over to Asaba, Delta State. Shops were said to be shut down, banks and major shopping malls shut, the residents were said to comply totally with the sit-at-home order.
All markets and businesses on the Asaba-Onitsha expressway were said to be closed. However, few traders were said to be loitering around their business structures in Asaba.
The Onitsha Bridge was completely abandoned as people stayed off businesses.
Share this on WhatsApp