Share this on WhatsAppA Coalition of medical mandates has commenced mobilization of petitions in the United States of America (US) to withdraw coronavirus vaccines from the market. The group has appealed to parents, healthcare practitioners, military officers and other people to add their comments on the Coalition’s petition demanding the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to immediately take the COVID vaccines out of the market.
The Coalition protesting the adverse effects of coronavirus vaccines and expressing concerns over the safety of recipients, sent a petition to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), demanding the agency to immediately revoke the Emergency Use Authorizations (EUAs) for COVID vaccines and to halt licensing of the products.
A coalition of health freedom organizations and individuals, in alliance with other vaccine safety and health freedom groups, sent out invitation to the public, including healthcare workers and parents to send in comment on the petition.
They compiled complaints of vaccine dangers and submitted 72 references supporting the request for revocation and restraint.
It was highlighted that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System data, recorded 192,954 cases of adverse effects from COVID vaccination; 4,057 deaths recorded between December 14, 2020, and May 7, 2021.
Considering the rising risk from the vaccines, the Coalition in the petition demanded the FDA to exclude children from receiving coronavirus vaccines, requesting immediate exclusion minors from participating in COVID vaccine trials and to immediately revoke all EUAs compelling vaccination of children under 18 years.
One of the protesters, Maureen McDonnell, MAMM founder, argued that “It’s time for the FDA to make a dramatic course correction before more deaths and injuries occur.”
The Coalition further demanded that the FDA should revoke its approval for pregnant women to receive COVID vaccines.
The petition berated FDA on the law that stipulates grant EUA status, that no other effective intervention may exist.
Another protester, CHD President and General Counsel Mary Holland, also argued: “It’s shocking that the FDA has ignored the unprecedented reports of injuries and deaths for five months.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp