Share this on WhatsAppThe Chairman of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) in Ondo State, Akinteye Babatunde Afeez, on Saturday escaped murder when armed men attacked his convoy on their way to a public event with some professional groups at the Royal Bird Hotel, Akure, Ondo State. The NANS state chairman in Ondo had last week declared support for the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), mobilizing for mass protest in several parts of Nigeria. The NANS state chairman had issued a statement last week, decrying the failure of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government and the hardship in the country.
The Ondo State chapter of NANS in a statement on Monday indicated that the armed men obstructed the convoy the NANS chairman and attacked the people with him.
The statement revealed that the armed men struck at exactly 8.15pm on Saturday night while the outgoing NANS Chairman, Comrade Akinteye Babatunde Afeez (BABTEE), was accompanied in his entourage by the newly elected NANS Chairman, Comrade Omotosho Surprise, and other comrades in the state.
“Honorably and peacefully, we were heading to a glamorous dinner night program organized by some professional bodies at Royal Bird Hotel, Akure, but unfortunately, some miscreants went away with the NANS Chairman vehicle which had phones, money, and documents, during the attack.
“Luckily for us, while trying to abscond from the scene, we were able to stop their last car which we handed over lawfully to the police yesterday night.
“This is ridiculous, embarrassing and a slap on the face of Nigerian students at large and we will not fold our arms and watch as we sue for justice lawfully,” the statement read in part.
The NANS leadership appealed to the student populace to be calm.
“At this juncture, we understand the fury of our students and we appeal to all students, students leaders, stakeholders, every concerned and perturbed individuals to remain calm as we sue for justice lawfully.
“It is sacrosanct to state unequivocally that we will not step down on this issue until the perpetrators are brought to justice.
“With our car carted away and the attack launched on us, we see this as a case of robbery and attempted murder, as such, we won’t step down the case until the perpetrators see the four corners of jail,” the NANS leadership declared.

Share this on WhatsApp