Share this on WhatsApp

The federal government has admitted that the country is facing serious security challenges, and it is working on how to tackle the menace.
Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed who disclosed this during a press conference in Abuja on Tuesday, said contrary to some comments that the government is overwhelmed and doesn’t have a clue as to how to tackle the challenges, this government is on top of the situation.
READ ALSO: Insecurity: Sanwo-Olu rejects Amotekun, plans more recruitment into Lagos State Neighbourhood Corps (LSNC)  
“Gentlemen, the government realizes that the security challenges we face today are systemic, hence has – in addition to kinetic efforts – also embarked on various non-kinetic measures to most effectively tackle the challenges.
He said one of the most difficult things to do for a democratically elected government is to use the instruments of coercion against its own people.
“For example, while the nation’s military have superior firepower over the rag tag band of Boko Haram and ISWA, the terrorists most often than not operate among the populace, either in our villages or towns, hence the military, in tackling them, is usually careful to avoid collateral damage.
READ ALSO: Police authorities order officers to stop escorting govs, senators, VIPs to southeast, Rivers
“The same applies to the kidnappers who abduct our school children. Usually, the location of the kidnappers is not unknown to the security forces, but they still have to exercise caution in order not to hurt the same children they are trying to rescue. Despite these inhibitions, the security forces have the wherewithal to decisively tackle the challenges.
Alhaji Muhammed also described the incessant attacks on security personnel as a dangerous trend, stressing that any attack on security men and women is an attack on the state and a declaration of war against the nation.
“It follows, therefore, that this will be countered with overwhelming force. When those whose responsibility it is to protect us are themselves being subjected to mindless attacks, it can only be for one reason only: To instill fear and evoke a sense of pervasive insecurity among the people. Whether known or unknown gunmen, those engaged in this dastardly act will pay dearly for their actions.
READ ALSO: Kidnappers of Greenfield varsity students increase ransom
He however cautioned those suggesting a truncation of democratic order, describing it as treasonable, appealing to Nigerians to lower the palpable tension in the polity by toning down the rhetoric.
Share this on WhatsApp