Share this on WhatsApp 
A boy, 17 years, Everest Romney, developed blood clots near his brain after being administered the first dose of Pfizer coronavirus vaccine in Utah, United States of America. Romney was subsequently hospitalized for urgent medical attention. The boy was in good health before receiving the Pfizer coronavirus vaccine jab.
The 17-year-old Everest Romney was gathered to have been given the vaccine on April 21, one day after, he began to feel neck pain, fever, and severe headaches.
The boy’s mother, Cherie Romney, had expressed regrets for allowing Everest to receive the vaccine. She complained that the symptoms were initially discarded by the pediatrician as pulled neck muscle, but the intensity showed something was wrong, which was later detected to be blood clots from the Pfizer coronavirus vaccine.
The family watched the boy suffer the pains over one week within which he could not freely move his neck, then sought diagnosis which led to the discovery of two blood clots, one in his brain, and another outside the brain.
The boy’s mother had lamented: “In a million years, I never expected it.
“The worst thing is to have the doctor come in and say, ‘OK, well, we found two blood clots inside his brain.’
“The hardest thing was I let him get that shot. And he was healthy and well before. But you question it, you can’t help but question it when it all goes wrong.”
Everest was initially attended to at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), though later moved out of the ICU on May 5 with no sign of recovery in the circumstance.  but has a long way to go.
The mother lamented that the time of remaining in the hospital is still unclear, saying they expect a miracle for his recovery.
“We needed a miracle, we still do. But we believe in miracles,” she declared.
Now, a new debate is springing up over the risk of receiving the coronavirus vaccines with the adverse effects and the risk of the infection.
Dr. Richard Orlandi of the University of Utah Health Department at a press conference, declared: “In weighing the risk and benefits with COVID as opposed to COVID vaccinations, we strongly encourage our patients to become vaccinated because the risk is much less than the risk of the disease.”
Share this on WhatsApp