Share this on WhatsApp
A female legislator representing Amuwo Odofin constituency 1 at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mojisolaoluwa Alli-Macaulay has embarked on another phase of her Ramadan welfare package distribution, while also catering for the nutritive needs of her  constituents in the holy month.


Alli-Macaulay who is also the Chairman House Committee on Women Affairs, Poverty Alleviation and Job Creation said that she will be giving out food items to people in the next few days.


The beautiful lawmaker and a conscious crooner of equitable representation for women, made this known during an interactive session with newsmen in Lagos on Tuesday.


Speaking on the importance of holding on to the lessons of Ramadan, she hinted that her gesture towards the people signals the message of the period, a time for everybody to show love to their neighbors, especially those that were in need.


“Ramadan is also a good time to pray for our Dear Country Nigeria and the rest of the world against insecurity, Poverty and the Dreaded Corona virus pandemic.


She further encouraged people to stretch forth helping hands  to people around them, especially the needy.


Alli-Macaulay added that the essence of Ramadan was for Muslims to put themselves in the position of those that were hungry so that they could know how it feels to be in need.


 “Just like Prophet Muhammad (SAW) said that anytime we are in the Ramadan period, we should always remember that there are some people somewhere who do not have food to eat, so whatever you have and no matter how little it is; we should try to share it with the people around us.”


Mama Amuwo as she is fondly called disclosed further that,”On my part, my office has reached out to over 3000 people through our empowerment programs and this holy month of Ramadan is not any different as we will be reaching out to over 1000 women.


According to her she specifically gives out food items in the month of Ramadan because people need to eat and that the essence of the period was to feed people and make them happy.


The lawmaker said that food items that were available for distribution to the people includes; milk, milo, sugar, spaghetti, garri, semovita, noodles, just to mention a few.


She noted that the gesture were solely afforded from her earnings.


Alli-Macaulay, however, dispelled the rumour that she used the palliative items meant for her constituents for her birthday celebration last year.


“I didn’t use palliatives for my birthday.The ceremony was a birthday / women empowerment programme. It was a coincidence that 90 boxes of indomie (the palliatives) came at that time and had to be shared anyway to the rightful owners,


“I’m a woman of compassion. I cannot take what’s meant for my people!  Even before I became a member in 2019, I have always touched people’s lives, in their hundreds.”


She reiterated that this is the time to remain faithful to God and to forgive one another. It is also a time to ask for forgiveness especially in these last 10 days of this glorious month to worship and get close to Allah.


As she also prayed for the peace and unity of Lagos State and that of the country generally.


Alli-Macaulay disclosed that she will be giving out free quality meals to her constituents in her office in Amuwo-Odofin to break their fast.


Adding that her act of benevolence was void of any political, religious and gender leaning and that there should be no sentiment in doing things to worship Allah.


Alli-Macaulay noted that last year, she gave out pepper grinding machines, sewing machines, hairdryer sets, popcorn machines to empower several women. “It is not about sentiment, I am just passionate about helping people and putting smiles on their faces”.


“Like I will always say, adding growth to humanity is greater through political participation, good conscience, diligence and women empowerment, so it is  important to give women 30% chance when considering people for positions of authority especially at all levels of government which is in tandem with the accord reached at the Beijing Conference in China.


While making reference to the forthcoming Local Government elections in Lagos State, Alli – Macaulay said that more women should jostle for opportunities to serve, as afforded in the coming electoral process, adding that discrimination against women should be eliminated in our society.


She however, used the opportunity to greet her fellow Muslim brothers and sisters, wishing them Ramadan Mubarak.
Share this on WhatsApp