Share this on WhatsApp 
An expert in biology, virology and a renowned vaccine developer, Dr. Geert Vanden Bossche, has warned the World Health Organisation (WHO) that coronavirus vaccines are becoming more dangerous across the world than the virus itself. Geert Vanden Bossche, Ph.D., an expert in biology, virology and renowned vaccine developer, had worked with GSK Biologicals, Novartis Vaccines, Solvay Biologicals and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, he cautioned WHO that “mass infection prevention and mass vaccination with leaky COVID-19 vaccines in the midst of the pandemic will only breed highly infectious variants.” Invariably, the world is becoming more unsafe with the coronavirus vaccines imposed on people by governments across the world. The expert, therefore, admonished that mass vaccination could lead to out-of-control pandemic in the world.
Vanden Bossche in a letter to WHO argued that “a combination of lockdowns and extreme selection pressure on the virus induced by the intense global mass vaccination program might diminish the number of cases, hospitalizations and deaths in the short-term, but ultimately could induce the creation of more concerning mutants.”
He maintained that “selection pressure will cause greater convergence in mutations that affect the critical spike protein of the virus that is responsible for breaking through the mucosal surfaces of our airways, the route used by the virus to enter the human body.” Vanden Bossche also stated that “the virus will outsmart the highly specific antigen-based vaccines that are being used and tweaked, dependent on the circulating variants, leading to an increase in serious and potentially lethal cases – in effect, an out-of-control pandemic.”
Vanden Bossche attributed the potential risk or danger to “immune escape”, implying incomplete sterilization of the virus by the human immune system or following vaccination resulting in more people who have had COVID remaining susceptible to reinfection.
It was noted that immune escape induces vaccine companies to further refine vaccines that will add, not reduce, the selection pressure, producing ever more transmissible and potentially deadly variants.
Vanden Bossche had declared: “There can be no doubt that continued mass vaccination campaigns will enable new, more infectious viral variants to become increasingly dominant and ultimately result in a dramatic incline in new cases despite enhanced vaccine coverage rates.” He contended that mass vaccination could “lead to complete resistance of circulating variants to the current vaccines.”
Some European countries have been adopting precautionary measures in the administration of coronavirus vaccines. Most countries in the world at a time suspended the use of certain coronavirus vaccines for a period.
Meanwhile, reports of adverse effects had led some countries which include the United Kingdom (UK) and United States (US) to set up fact checking agencies to investigate the reports of adverse effects of coronavirus vaccines being administered to citizens of their countries.
Share this on WhatsApp