Share this on WhatsAppOffices of the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) in the Southeast region have come under serious attacks from hoodlums in recent time with stakeholders warning that the trend may portend danger for the region in 2023 if not checked.
The latest of the series of attacks happened on Sunday night when the hoodlums attacked the commission’s offices in Ahiazu Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State, the State Headquarters office in Awka, Anambra State and Igboeze South Local Government Area office in Enugu State.
In a statement by National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, INEC, described the escalating attacks on its facilities as a national emergency.
READ ALSO: Baba Ijesha opens up on bail conditions, disagreement with lawyer
According to the statement, “the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) met in emergency session today, Monday 24th May 2021, as attacks on its facilities in some states of the Federation continue unabated.
“In the latest incidents, three offices of the Commission came under attack in Anambra, Imo and Enugu States. The Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) for Anambra State, Dr. Nkwachukwu Orji; his Imo State counterpart, Professor Francis Ezeonu, and that of Enugu State, Emeka Ononamadu, have reported that the attacks took place at various times on the night of Sunday, 23rd May 2021.”
It continued that, “the State Headquarters office in Awka was set ablaze in the most devastating onslaught on the Commission’s facilities so far. The attackers were systematic and selective in their targets.
READ ALSO: Fresh bloodshed in Benue communities, 100 killed in fresh attack
The Pavillion which serves as Collation Centre during major elections was burnt down. In what is a major blow to our preparations for the Governorship election scheduled for 6th November 2021, two stores housing electoral materials were burnt down.
“New and old (but serviceable) electric generating machines numbering 376 for all the Electoral Wards and the extra numbers for backup were completely burnt. The electric generators were recently relocated from the Local Government Areas (LGAs) to the State HQ in the belief that it is more secure than the LGA offices.”
Share this on WhatsApp