Share this on WhatsApp
 
 
Former Nigeria vice president Atiku Abubakar and other politicians are mourning the sudden death of former Minister of Women Affairs, Hajiya Jummai Alhassan in a Cairo hospital on Friday.
Al-Hassan, 61, was a former women affairs minister, was also a former Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria from Taraba North Senatorial District.
Read also: Your evil plot has come to hunt you, Wike tells El-Rufai
She was also the All Progressives Congress’ Governorship Candidate for Taraba State in the 2015 general elections. Al-Hassan lost the election on the platform of the United Democratic Party in the 2019 general elections.
Al-Hassan resigned as a minister under President Muhammadu Buhari in July 27, 2018 to pursue her not-to-be gubernatorial ambition.
Atiku in a message said, “I am grieved by the death of former Minister of Women Affairs, Sen. Aisha Alhassan,” Atiku tweeted. “I asked about her condition this afternoon after I called her number without a response! Inna lillahi wainna Ilaihi Rajiun!.”
Read also: Nigerian excretes 59 wraps of heroin at Abuja Airport
Former Senator Ben Murray-Bruce said, “I’m saddened by the death of Aisha Al-Hassan, ‘Mama Taraba’. My condolence to the family, her loved ones and the government and people of Taraba state. May her soul rest in peace.
Similarly, former senate president, Saraki, said the late minister will be remembered for her courage, tenacity and her commitment to public service.
“My sincere condolences to the family, friends and fervent supporters of Mama Taraba, Sen. Aisha Alhassan who passed away earlier today. She will be remembered for her courage, tenacity and her commitment to public service,” Saraki said.
Read also: How JPMorgan ignored red flags on Malabu oil fraud
“I pray that Almighty Allah grants her a place amongst the righteous ones in Al Jannah Firdaus.”
She was Taraba State APC Gubernatorial Candidate for the 2015 general elections. She contested for the same seat on the platform of the UDP in the 2019 general elections.
Aisha Jummai Al-Hassan was born on the 16th of September, 1959 in Jalingo, Taraba State, to Alhaji Abubakar Ibrahim OON, Sarkin Ayukan Muri.
Share this on WhatsApp