Share this on WhatsApp

The traditional ruler of Idumuje-Ugboko, Agbogidi Solomon Eziokwubundu Nwabuokei Nwoko has debunked the allegations against Prince Ned Nwoko that he ordered the arrest of one Okey Ifejoku over a land deal, stressing that no one in his kingdom was detained over land grabbing crisis.
It would be recalled that Ned Nwoko, a lawyer and former member of the House of Representatives, was allegedly accused of land grabbing to establish a proposed Sports, Technology, and Arts (STARS) University in his community, Idume Ugboko, Delta state.
In a report published 5 December 2020, Premium Times cited several residents of Idume Ugboko, whose land was seized by Nwoko.
READ ALSO: https://nationaldailyng.com/delta-billionaire-ned-nwoko-in-land-grabbing-scandal/
However, in a statement issued by Fred Akpewe, media aide to the Obi of Idumuje-Ugboko Kingdom, he said the attention of the Obi of Idumuje Ugboko, HRM AGBOGIDI SOLOMON EZIOKWUBUNDU NWABUOKEI NWOKO, has been drawn to the series of rumours and online propaganda emanating from the family of Okey Ifejoku insinuating that some persons in his kingdom are still being prosecuted as a result of land deals.
“To the best of the knowledge of the Obi of Idumuje Ugboko no one is in police custody or is being arraigned as a result of land deals in his kingdom. The only remote issue relating to land dispute is a civil case involving one hectare of land between Prince Chukwunonso Nwoko and the Banyes’.
‘The Obi of Idumuje Ugboko is however aware that there are ongoing criminal prosecution for terrorism and murder of persons arising from the May 18th to 25th attacks and destruction in Idumuje Ugboko which is now popularly referred to as the 2017 mayhem in the community.
READ ALSO: https://nationaldailyng.com/billionaire-ned-nwoko-was-first-with-annie-idibia-chika-ike-before-finding-regina-daniels-fresh-reports/
“Those currently tried for terrorism and murder in a Federal High Court Abuja are Dennis Uwadiegwu Nwoko, Ndudi Chijiume, Nwochie Agiliga Light, Raymond Omosiele, Adim Nwafor, Okey Ifejoku, Azuka Mukolu, Ejimofor Nwoko. Others are Omoye Esonye, Aikhomo Omezi, Sir Godwin Akaba Aniemeke and Emeka Oyibundu’
“Some of the above persons have been granted bail while a few others are still perfecting their bail conditions. Instead of the aforementioned persons to defend themselves in court for the charges against them they are claiming that they are being arraigned as a result of land issues.
“By this they falsely and maliciously allege that their arraignment is at the instance of Prince (Dr) Ned Nwoko, the Chancellor of the proposed STARS UNIVERSITY in Idumuje Ugboko. HRM AGBOGIDI SOLOMON EZIOKWUBUNDU NWABUOKEI NWOKO wishes to clarify that the arraignment of certain persons mentioned above have no bearing whatsoever with land issues.
READ ALSO: https://nationaldailyng.com/shan-george-vs-regina-daniel-you-cant-have-ned-nwokos-number/
“As a matter of fact the victims of the 2017 Idumuje Ugboko mayhem are the complainants together with their witnesses in the murder of Cyprian Kumiolu and Kennedy Iloh. Specifically Okeh Ifejoku and others being prosecuted for the murder of Cyprian Kumiolu’.
He said the clarification became necessary to set records straight in view of distorted facts concerning the arraignment of person in a Federal Court in connection with terrorism and murder charges.
Share this on WhatsApp