Share this on WhatsApp
 
 
Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state has said the present insecurity situation in Kaduna state was a payback of the crisis governor Nasir El-Rufai once plotted against Rivers state.
The Governor spoke on Friday when Vice-President of Rotary Club of Port Harcourt, Rotarian Obiageli Ejezie, led other leaders of the association to the Government House, Port Harcourt.
While accusing the Federal Government of instigating security crises in Rivers, Wike said Governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by El-Rufai, visited the Presidency to demand the withdrawal of a Commissioner of Police from Rivers.
Read also: ASUP vows to continue nationwide strike
He said: “Now, in order to cause crisis in our state, they brought the CP they wanted. At the end of the day, God did not allow them to have their way.
“But see what is happening in his state now. When you are plotting evil against somebody, evil will visit you. And that is the problems Governor El-Rufai is facing today in Kaduna State.
“I remember when I came in 2015, when they were honouring one of their friends as a Minister on live television Channels, El-Rufai had the temerity to say that (my) election cannot stand in Rivers state and that they will kick me out.”
The Governor maintained that the APC mismanaged the opportunity Nigerians gave them to make a difference and deserve to be voted out in 2023.
Read also: El-Rufai reveals things about Igbo making 2023 presidency impossible for the region
The Governor told the delegation in 2015, that APC convinced Nigerians they were going to offer better governance than the former President Goodluck Jonathan.
But he said: “There can’t be good governance without security and this is based on rule of law. All of us are living witnesses in 2015 when it was alleged that the government of former President Goodluck Jonathan, could not perform. So Nigeria needed a change. What has happened to the change? They have taken Nigeria back by 50 years.”
Wike wondered how long the Federal government would allow the needless killings and abduction of innocent Nigerians to continue.
He said it was no longer acceptable for Nigerians to wake up daily to such ugly news of killings because they expected the government to guarantee security.
Read also: How JPMorgan ignored red flags on Malabu oil fraud
He said: “Now, you wake up every morning, students are being kidnapped in so and so State University, people have been killed in so and so State. So, it has become a norm.
The Rivers Governor said his administration was doing everything possible to secure life and property of all residents in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp