Share this on WhatsApp 
The Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, may have slammed President Muhammadu Buhari on the worsening economic and security situations in Nigeria. sultan Abubakar at the National Security Summit in Abuja voiced out that Nigerians can no longer deceive themselves that things are working well.
The royal father declared: “Let us not deceive ourselves that things are alright, things are not alright. “We know it and we see it. For some of us, we have seen so much in our lives.
“Now, things are really very bad. It doesn’t take anybody to know that Nigeria is in a very bad situation, and it is a fact.”
Sultan Abubakar emphasised that in the 11 years of being a traditional ruler, he has been involved in several deliberations on Nigeria’s national security. He advocated that it is time to move from talk to action. According to the Sultan, “the time has come for leaders to implement  resolutions made at the various summits than mere talks.”
The Sultan commended the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, for convening the National Security Summit, he reiterated that the organisers must ensure the implementation of the resolutions of the summit.
Sultan Abubakar noted that the Speaker of the House and the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, have admitted that things are not well with the country, adding that it is time for something to be done by the government.
The sultan decried: “In the last one and a half months, we have had three serious gatherings like this with the highest security echelons, leaderships in the country.
“Today, we are here once again to talk on the same issues of national security. I think enough of these talks, let us walk the talk.
“The more we sit here and talk, the more time we waste time in taking real actions because we know the problems.”
The Nigerian presidency appears to have groomed more specialists in condemnation and condolence speeches whenever bandits, kidnappers, Boko Haram, killer herdsmen, struck in any part of the country. The government seems intimidated by the perpetrators of violence crimes in take decisive actions.
Share this on WhatsApp