Share this on WhatsApp
An Islamic group, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), on Thursday slammed an elder statesman, Chief Robert Clarke, over his statement that President Muhammadu Buhari should delegate executive powers to the Chief of Defence Staff for declaration of a state of emergency in the 36 states of the federation to halt the insecurity crisis in the country.
The Director of Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), Professor Ishaq Akintola, in a statement declared that the suggestion was an outright balderdash.
The group argued that the suggestion is not consistent with the Nigerian constitution. MURIC shifted the blame on the crisis of governance in the country to the military era where the structure of Nigeria was altered by the dictatorial regime.
MURIC in the statement declared:
“Chief Robert Clarke’s recent suggestion that President Muhammadu Buhari should delegate his executive powers to the Chief of Defence Staff who should then declare a state of emergency in all the 36 states of the federation for the purpose of bringing Nigeria’s security challenges to a halt is, to say the least, nauseating, preposterous and egregious. It is outright balderdash.
“We are grossly disappointed that a learned fellow of timber, calliber and caterpillar, a SAN, would offer such an outrageous suggestion. How consistent is his suggestion with the provisions of the constitution which, ceteris paribus, should be his major area of concern?
ALSO READ: Mbaka: Protesting youths vandalise Enugu Catholic Bishop’s residence
“It may have been 22 years away since 1999 when the military ceded power to civilians, but we have not forgotten the woes visited on this country by the military. The travails of Nigeria today can be traced to military misadventure in politics.”
The group argued: “They militarised our youth, introduced totalitarian dictatorship, legalised extrajudicial killing, and institutionalised the dehumanisation and humiliation of Nigerians. The criminal neglect of the education sector began under the military while massive corruption and waste were its major signposts.
“The annulment of the June 12, 1993, election by the military was the last straw that broke the camel’s back. Nigerians can never forgive the military for the killing of the winner of that monumental election, Chief M. K. O. Abiola in military detention and the brutal assassination of his wife, Alhaja Kudirat Abiola. This aspect of Nigerian history portrays the military as an institution that has no respect for civility, probity, and accountability.”
Professor Akintola, therefore, declared: “Chief Clarke should bury the thought. Neither should the Nigerian Army swallow the bait because no decent Nigerian will buy military rule for 10 kobo.
“Although the army has rebuffed Chief Clarke, we wish to reiterate the fact that military involvement in politics is out of fashion, toxic and anachronistic. Nigerians will rather be free men in their graves than live like puppets and slaves.
“We say ‘No’ to another banana republic. It may not be perfect yet, but Chief Clarke should respect Nigeria’s democracy.”
Chief Clarke had in a media interaction expressed concerns over the intractable insecurity in the country and the inability of the federal government to tackle the crisis.
Share this on WhatsApp