Share this on WhatsApp

National leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu and other leaders of the party in the Southwest have denounced Sunday Igboho and other groups agitating for a Yoruba nation.
In a meeting convened by the Tinubu in Lagos, the APC Southwest leaders expressed concerns about the state of the nation, particularly the serious security challenges facing the country, but insisted that disintegration of the country was not the solution.
A communique issued at the end of the meeting and read by Akande commiserated with President Muhammadu Buhari, the military authorities, families of the Chief of Army Staff and other officers who died, and indeed the entire nation over last Friday’s tragic plane crash in Kaduna.
They expressed their strong opposition to separatist agitations and hate speeches, urging those indulging in such to desist forthwith, renewing their belief in the unity, stability and sustainability of the country.
READ ALSO: APC presidential ticket must go to South, chieftain insists
The APC leaders said they endorsed the position of the Southern Governors taken at their May 11, 2021 summit in Asaba, Delta State, regarding ranching.
“We do so because such a decision will lessen tensions between farmers and herders while also helping the long-term economic viability of both the farming and herding communities. We are mindful of the short-term dislocation this might cause but are also mindful that this position is in the best interests of all parties concerned.
“We, therefore, recommend that the federal and state governments cooperate fully with each other to enact the necessary measures to encourage this more effective and modern method of cattle-rearing so that both farmers and herders can pursue their livelihoods with greater productivity and in a more cooperative relationship that minimizes the friction between these two important pillars of our agricultural economy,” they said.
The communique noted with significant concern the security situation in the country, saying that terrorism and violent criminality threatened many areas, adversely affecting the lives and livelihoods of too many innocent and peace-loving Nigerians.
“For Nigeria to overcome these challenges, we must do so with unity of purpose and action. The desire for peace and the chance for a prosperous and just society is universal and transcends all regional, religious or ethnic divisions. Sadly, many public figures have made statements that spark division and undermine the needed unity of purpose.
READ ALSO:https://nationaldailyng.com/fears-heighten-in-lagos-as-teen-gangs-take-over-streets/
“We urge government at all levels, security agencies, and public leaders across the country to do everything possible to prevent tension so that we sustain the necessary unity to defeat these challenges to our national security. All responsible Nigerians must speak and act in a manner that strengthens our common cause against these common threats to our collective peace, justice and development,” they added.
Others at the meeting were former Interim Chairman of APC, Chief Bisi Akande; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governor Dapo Abiodun, Governor Gboyega Oyetola, Pius Akinyelure, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp