Share this on WhatsApp


Despite assurances by the police authorities that Abuja is safe, private schools in Bwari Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory hurriedly shut down their activities over fear of possible attack by kidnappers.
Some of the schools in Bwari area council that sent their students home on Wednesday for fear of possible attacks by kidnappers include De-Goopherwood Montessori School (close to Nigerian Law School), Glorious Bright School, Tundun Fulani and Asusi International School.
A parent, who has children at Glorious Bright School said she got a call from the school management to come and pick their children before the normal closing hour for fear of attacks by kidnappers. Another parent who has children at De-Goopherwood Montessori School also confirmed that his children closed before the normal closing hour.
Gbenga Daniel leads new southwest group, seek errands from Osinbajo
According to residents, the fear was heightened following the report that over 200 unknown persons were dropped from a truck in Sabon Wuse area.
About three days ago, the FCT Police Command faulted information that the territory was under possible attack by Boko Haram terrorists.
The command had, in a press statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Yusuf Mariam, said, “The attention of the FCT Joint Security Team has been drawn to a viral publication in the social media purporting that the ‘Federal Capital Territory is under the attack of Boko Haram Terrorists’.
Meanwhile, following the social media report of invasion of Bwari axis of the FCT by suspected Boko Haram terrorists, bandits or kidnappers, the Nigeria Police have said they are monitoring the situation.
Read also: How to protect yourself from ATM, POS fraud
Though the spokesperson of the police and the FCT PRO did not comment on the issue, a reliable senior police officer, who pleaded anonymity, said that the police management had deployed tactical teams which are monitoring the situation, but that there is no cause for alarm.
According to the source, the situation is very critical and the police are not taking it lightly.


Share this on WhatsApp