Share this on WhatsApp
 
 
The Minority Caucus of the National Assembly comprising federal lawmakers of opposition parties in both chambers of the National Assembly has passed a vote of no confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari and his Minister of Communications and digital economy, Isa Pantami.
Addressing newsmen after a closed-door session, Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, who read a prepared statement, said they are opposed to the continued superintendent of the NIN registration by someone whom the country has lost confidence in.
They therefore called on the government to go ahead and summon the courage to do the needful that when people lose confidence in a member of the government, that person should either quit or be fired.
Read also: https://nationaldailyng.com/gov-ortom-reveals-president-buharis-hidden-agenda-with-herdsmen/
The group also listed the many sins of President Buhari’s administration to include the growing spate of insecurity, poor state of the economy, and stifling of voices of dissent.
The Minority Caucus recalled the promise made by the erstwhile opposition party now ruling party before the 2015 general elections to combat insecurity and revamp the ailing economy.
The Caucus noted that six years down the line none of the promises has been redeemed.
The opposition lawmakers equally accused President Buhari of indifference to the scary security situation as they noted that despite the killings across the country, President Buhari has refused to address the nation.
“The caucus has also taken note of the fact that the President is absent from duty. We have not seen our president. We have not heard from our president despite the daily killings that have turned Nigeria into a killing field of unimaginable proportions.
“Therefore, the caucus has taken note and will continue to take note of the constitutional breaches that are happening at this time by the government of the APC and will at the appropriate time utilize all constitutional methods and measures available after consultations with our colleagues to do the needful to save the country from collapse.
Read also: https://nationaldailyng.com/national-security-summit-fg-slams-pdp-for-playing-politics/
The minority caucus also put on notice Nigerians and the international community about the threats to the lives of its members, to those who come out to say things that are true about the state of Nigeria, and these threats have come in various forms, including the threat to life.
“We, therefore as a caucus, suggest that immediate steps should be taken by governments at all levels to set up proper security infrastructure whether in the mode of state police and other constitutional reforms to arrest the drift of the nation.
“The caucus also expresses strong reservations about the economic strategy of the government which has culminated into what is called quantitative easing, which the ordinary man knows as printing money.
‘We think that the government should reverse itself and should not continue in its mindless borrowing without seeing any benefits that are coming from it.”
Share this on WhatsApp